.START 

Pierre Vinken, 61 years old, will join the board as a nonexecutive director Nov. 29.
Mr. Vinken is chairman of Elsevier N.V., the Dutch publishing group. 

Rudolph Agnew, 55 years old and former chairman of Consolidated Gold Fields PLC, was named a nonexecutive director of this British industrial conglomerate. 

J.P. Bolduc, vice chairman of W.R. Grace & Co., which holds a 83.4% interest in this energy-services company, was elected a director.
He succeeds Terrence D. Daniels, formerly a W.R. Grace vice chairman, who resigned.
W.R. Grace holds three of Grace Energy's seven board seats. 


Pacific First Financial Corp. said shareholders approved its acquisition by Royal Trustco Ltd. of Toronto for $27 a share, or $212 million. 

The thrift holding company said it expects to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end. 


McDermott International Inc. said its Babcock & Wilcox unit completed the sale of its Bailey Controls Operations to Finmeccanica S.p.
A. for $295 million. 

Finmeccanica is an Italian state-owned holding company with interests in the mechanical engineering industry. 

Bailey Controls, based in Wickliffe, Ohio, makes computerized industrial controls systems.
It employs 2,700 people and has annual revenue of about $370 million. 


The federal government suspended sales of U.S. savings bonds because Congress hasn't lifted the ceiling on government debt. 

Until Congress acts, the government hasn't any authority to issue new debt obligations of any kind, the Treasury said. 

The government's borrowing authority dropped at midnight Tuesday to $2.80 trillion from $2.87 trillion.
Legislation to lift the debt ceiling is ensnarled in the fight over cutting capital-gains taxes. 

The House has voted to raise the ceiling to $3.1 trillion, but the Senate isn't expected to act until next week at the earliest.
The Treasury said the U.S. will default on Nov. 9 if Congress doesn't act by then. 

South Korea registered a trade deficit of $101 million in October, reflecting the country's economic sluggishness, according to government figures released Wednesday. 

Preliminary tallies by the Trade and Industry Ministry showed another trade deficit in October, the fifth monthly setback this year, casting a cloud on South Korea's export-oriented economy. 

Exports in October stood at $5.29 billion, a mere 0.7% increase from a year earlier, while imports increased sharply to $5.39 billion, up 20% from last October. 

South Korea's economic boom, which began in 1986, stopped this year because of prolonged labor disputes, trade conflicts and sluggish exports.
Government officials said exports at the end of the year would remain under a government target of $68 billion. 

Despite the gloomy forecast, South Korea has recorded a trade surplus of $71 million so far this year. 

From January to October, the nation's accumulated exports increased 4% from the same period last year to $50.45 billion.
Imports were at $50.38 billion, up 19%. 

Texas Instruments Japan Ltd., a unit of Texas Instruments Inc., said it opened a plant in South Korea to manufacture control devices. 

The new plant, located in Chinchon about 60 miles from Seoul, will help meet increasing and diversifying demand for control products in South Korea, the company said. 

The plant will produce control devices used in motor vehicles and household appliances. 

John R. Stevens, 49 years old, was named senior executive vice president and chief operating officer, both new positions.
He will continue to report to Donald Pardus, president and chief executive officer.
Mr. Stevens was executive vice president of this electric-utility holding company.
Arthur A. Hatch, 59, was named executive vice president of the company.
He was previously president of the company's Eastern Edison Co. unit.
John D. Carney, 45, was named to succeed Mr. Hatch as president of Eastern Edison.
Previously he was vice president of Eastern Edison.
Robert P. Tassinari, 63, was named senior vice president of Eastern Utilities.
He was previously vice president. 

F.H. Faulding & Co., an Australian pharmaceuticals company, said its Moleculon Inc. affiliate acquired Kalipharma Inc. for $23 million. 

Kalipharma is a New Jersey-based pharmaceuticals concern that sells products under the Purepac label. 

Faulding said it owns 33% of Moleculon's voting stock and has an agreement to acquire an additional 19%.
That stake, together with its convertible preferred stock holdings, gives Faulding the right to increase its interest to 70% of Moleculon's voting stock. 

Oil production from Australia's Bass Strait fields will be raised by 11,000 barrels a day to about 321,000 barrels with the launch of the Whiting field, the first of five small fields scheduled to be brought into production before the end of 1990. 

Esso Australia Ltd., a unit of New York-based Exxon Corp., and Broken Hill Pty. operate the fields in a joint venture. 

Esso said the Whiting field started production Tuesday.
Output will be gradually increased until it reaches about 11,000 barrels a day.
The field has reserves of 21 million barrels.
Reserves for the five new fields total 50 million barrels. 

The Perch and Dolphin fields are expected to start producing early next year, and the Seahorse and Tarwhine fields later next year.
Esso said the fields were developed after the Australian government decided in 1987 to make the first 30 million barrels from new fields free of excise tax. 

R.P. Scherer Corp. said it completed the $10.2 million sale of its Southern Optical subsidiary to a group led by the unit's president, Thomas R. Sloan, and other managers. 

Following the acquisition of R.P. Scherer by a buy-out group led by Shearson Lehman Hutton earlier this year, the maker of gelatin capsules decided to divest itself of certain of its non-encapsulating businesses.
The sale of Southern Optical is a part of the program. 

Lord Chilver, 63-year-old chairman of English China Clays PLC, was named a nonexecutive director of this British chemical company. 

James L. Pate, 54-year-old executive vice president, was named a director of this oil concern, expanding the board to 14 members. 

A form of asbestos once used to make Kent cigarette filters has caused a high percentage of cancer deaths among a group of workers exposed to it more than 30 years ago, researchers reported. 

The asbestos fiber, crocidolite, is unusually resilient once it enters the lungs, with even brief exposures to it causing symptoms that show up decades later, researchers said.
Lorillard Inc., the unit of New York-based Loews Corp. that makes Kent cigarettes, stopped using crocidolite in its Micronite cigarette filters in 1956. 

Although preliminary findings were reported more than a year ago, the latest results appear in today's New England Journal of Medicine, a forum likely to bring new attention to the problem. 

A Lorillard spokewoman said, "This is an old story.
We're talking about years ago before anyone heard of asbestos having any questionable properties.
There is no asbestos in our products now." 

Neither Lorillard nor the researchers who studied the workers were aware of any research on smokers of the Kent cigarettes.

"We have no useful information on whether users are at risk," said James A. Talcott of Boston's Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.
Dr. Talcott led a team of researchers from the National Cancer Institute and the medical schools of Harvard University and Boston University. 

The Lorillard spokeswoman said asbestos was used in "very modest amounts" in making paper for the filters in the early 1950s and replaced with a different type of filter in 1956.
From 1953 to 1955, 9.8 billion Kent cigarettes with the filters were sold, the company said. 

Among 33 men who worked closely with the substance, 28 have died -- more than three times the expected number.
Four of the five surviving workers have asbestos-related diseases, including three with recently diagnosed cancer.
The total of 18 deaths from malignant mesothelioma, lung cancer and asbestosis was far higher than expected, the researchers said. 

"The morbidity rate is a striking finding among those of us who study asbestos-related diseases," said Dr. Talcott. 

The percentage of lung cancer deaths among the workers at the West Groton, Mass., paper factory appears to be the highest for any asbestos workers studied in Western industrialized countries, he said.
The plant, which is owned by Hollingsworth & Vose Co., was under contract with Lorillard to make the cigarette filters. 

The finding probably will support those who argue that the U.S. should regulate the class of asbestos including crocidolite more stringently than the common kind of asbestos, chrysotile, found in most schools and other buildings, Dr. Talcott said. 

The U.S. is one of the few industrialized nations that doesn't have a higher standard of regulation for the smooth, needle-like fibers such as crocidolite that are classified as amphobiles, according to Brooke T. Mossman, a professor of pathlogy at the University of Vermont College of Medicine.
More common chrysotile fibers are curly and are more easily rejected by the body, Dr. Mossman explained. 

In July, the Environmental Protection Agency imposed a gradual ban on virtually all uses of asbestos.
By 1997, almost all remaining uses of cancer-causing asbestos will be outlawed. 

About 160 workers at a factory that made paper for the Kent filters were exposed to asbestos in the 1950s.
Areas of the factory were particularly dusty where the crocidolite was used.
Workers dumped large burlap sacks of the imported material into a huge bin, poured in cotton and acetate fibers and mechanically mixed the dry fibers in a process used to make filters.
Workers described "clouds of blue dust" that hung over parts of the factory, even though exhaust fans ventilated the area. 

"There's no question that some of those workers and managers contracted asbestos-related diseases," said Darrell Phillips, vice president of human resources for Hollingsworth & Vose. "But you have to recognize that these events took place 35 years ago.
It has no bearing on our work force today." 

Yields on money-market mutual funds continued to slide, amid signs that portfolio managers expect further declines in interest rates. 

The average seven-day compound yield of the 400 taxable funds tracked by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report eased a fraction of a percentage point to 8.45% from 8.47% for the week ended Tuesday.
Compound yields assume reinvestment of dividends and that the current yield continues for a year. 

Average maturity of the funds' investments lengthened by a day to 41 days, the longest since early August, according to Donoghue's.
Longer maturities are thought to indicate declining interest rates because they permit portfolio managers to retain relatively higher rates for a longer period.
Shorter maturities are considered a sign of rising rates because portfolio managers can capture higher rates sooner. 

The average maturity for funds open only to institutions, considered by some to be a stronger indicator because those managers watch the market closely, reached a high point for the year -- 33 days. 

Nevertheless, said Brenda Malizia Negus, editor of Money Fund Report, yields "may blip up again before they blip down" because of recent rises in short-term interest rates.
The yield on six-month Treasury bills sold at Monday's auction, for example, rose to 8.04% from 7.90%. 

Despite recent declines in yields, investors continue to pour cash into money funds.
Assets of the 400 taxable funds grew by $1.5 billion during the latest week, to $352.7 billion. 

Typically, money-fund yields beat comparable short-term investments because portfolio managers can vary maturities and go after the highest rates.
The top money funds are currently yielding well over 9%.
Dreyfus World-Wide Dollar, the top-yielding fund, had a seven-day compound yield of 9.37% during the latest week, down from 9.45% a week earlier.
It invests heavily in dollar-denominated securities overseas and is currently waiving management fees, which boosts its yield.
The average seven-day simple yield of the 400 funds was 8.12%, down from 8.14%.
The 30-day simple yield fell to an average 8.19% from 8.22%; the 30-day compound yield slid to an average 8.53% from 8.56%. 

When it's time for their biannual powwow, the nation's manufacturing titans typically jet off to the sunny confines of resort towns like Boca Raton and Hot Springs. 

Not this year. 

The National Association of Manufacturers settled on the Hoosier capital of Indianapolis for its fall board meeting.
And the city decided to treat its guests more like royalty or rock stars than factory owners.
The idea, of course: to prove to 125 corporate decision makers that the buckle on the Rust Belt isn't so rusty after all, that it's a good place for a company to expand. 

On the receiving end of the message were officials from giants like Du Pont and Maytag, along with lesser knowns like Trojan Steel and the Valley Queen Cheese Factory. 

For starters, the executives joined Mayor William H. Hudnut III for an evening of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra and a guest pianist-comedian Victor Borge.
Champagne and dessert followed. 

The next morning, with a police escort, busloads of executives and their wives raced to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, unimpeded by traffic or red lights.
The governor couldn't make it, so the lieutenant governor welcomed the special guests.
A buffet breakfast was held in the museum, where food and drinks are banned to everyday visitors.
Then, in the guests' honor, the speedway hauled out four drivers, crews and even the official Indianapolis 500 announcer for a 10-lap exhibition race. 

After the race, Fortune 500 executives drooled like schoolboys over the cars and drivers.
No dummies, the drivers pointed out they still had space on their machines for another sponsor's name or two. 

Back downtown, the execs squeezed in a few meetings at the hotel before boarding the buses again.
This time, it was for dinner and dancing -- a block away. 

Under the stars and moons of the renovated Indiana Roof ballroom, nine of the hottest chefs in town fed them Indiana duckling mousseline, lobster consomme, veal mignon and chocolate terrine with a raspberry sauce.
Knowing a tasty -- and free -- meal when they eat one, the executives gave the chefs a standing ovation. 

More than a few CEOs say the red-carpet treatment tempts them to return to a heartland city for future meetings.
But for now, they're looking forward to their winter meeting -- Boca in February. 

Newsweek, trying to keep pace with rival Time magazine, announced new advertising rates for 1990 and said it will introduce a new incentive plan for advertisers. 

The new ad plan from Newsweek, a unit of the Washington Post Co., is the second incentive plan the magazine has offered advertisers in three years.
Plans that give advertisers discounts for maintaining or increasing ad spending have become permanent fixtures at the news weeklies and underscore the fierce competition between Newsweek, Time Warner Inc. 's Time magazine, and Mortimer B. Zuckerman's U.S. News & World Report. 

Alan Spoon, recently named Newsweek president, said Newsweek's ad rates would increase 5% in January.
A full, four-color page in Newsweek will cost $100,980.
In mid-October, Time magazine lowered its guaranteed circulation rate base for 1990 while not increasing ad page rates; with a lower circulation base, Time's ad rate will be effectively 7.5% higher per subscriber; a full page in Time costs about $120,000.
U.S. News has yet to announce its 1990 ad rates. 

Newsweek said it will introduce the Circulation Credit Plan, which awards space credits to advertisers on "renewal advertising."

Mr. Spoon said the plan is not an attempt to shore up a decline in ad pages in the first nine months of 1989; Newsweek's ad pages totaled 1,620, a drop of 3.2% from last year, according to Publishers Information Bureau. "What matters is what advertisers are paying per page, and in that department we are doing fine this fall," said Mr. Spoon. 

Both Newsweek and U.S. News have been gaining circulation in recent years without heavy use of electronic giveaways to subscribers, such as telephones or watches.
However, none of the big three weeklies recorded circulation gains recently.
According to Audit Bureau of Circulations, Time, the largest newsweekly, had average circulation of 4,393,237, a decrease of 7.3%.
Newsweek's circulation for the first six months of 1989 was 3,288,453, flat from the same period last year.
U.S. News' circulation in the same time was 2,303,328, down 2.6%. 

New England Electric System bowed out of the bidding for Public Service Co. of New Hampshire, saying that the risks were too high and the potential payoff too far in the future to justify a higher offer. 

The move leaves United Illuminating Co. and Northeast Utilities as the remaining outside bidders for PS of New Hampshire, which also has proposed an internal reorganization plan in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings under which it would remain an independent company. 

New England Electric, based in Westborough, Mass., had offered $2 billion to acquire PS of New Hampshire, well below the $2.29 billion value United Illuminating places on its bid and the $2.25 billion Northeast says its bid is worth.
United Illuminating is based in New Haven, Conn., and Northeast is based in Hartford, Conn.
PS of New Hampshire, Manchester, N.H., values its internal reorganization plan at about $2.2 billion. 

John Rowe, president and chief executive officer of New England Electric, said the company's return on equity could suffer if it made a higher bid and its forecasts related to PS of New Hampshire -- such as growth in electricity demand and improved operating efficiencies -- didn't come true. "When we evaluated raising our bid, the risks seemed substantial and persistent over the next five years, and the rewards seemed a long way out.
That got hard to take," he added. 

Mr. Rowe also noted that political concerns also worried New England Electric.
No matter who owns PS of New Hampshire, after it emerges from bankruptcy proceedings its rates will be among the highest in the nation, he said. "That attracts attention. It was just another one of the risk factors" that led to the company's decision to withdraw from the bidding, he added. 

Wilbur Ross Jr. of Rothschild Inc., the financial adviser to the troubled company's equity holders, said the withdrawal of New England Electric might speed up the reorganization process.
The fact that New England proposed lower rate increases -- 4.8% over seven years against around 5.5% boosts proposed by the other two outside bidders -- complicated negotiations with state officials, Mr. Ross asserted. "Now the field is less cluttered," he added. 

Separately, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission turned down for now a request by Northeast seeking approval of its possible purchase of PS of New Hampshire.
Northeast said it would refile its request and still hopes for an expedited review by the FERC so that it could complete the purchase by next summer if its bid is the one approved by the bankruptcy court. 

PS of New Hampshire shares closed yesterday at $3.75, off 25 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. 

Norman Ricken, 52 years old and former president and chief operating officer of Toys "R" Us Inc., and Frederick Deane Jr., 63, chairman of Signet Banking Corp., were elected directors of this consumer electronics and appliances retailing chain.
They succeed Daniel M. Rexinger, retired Circuit City executive vice president, and Robert R. Glauber, U.S. Treasury undersecretary, on the 12-member board. 


Texas Instruments Japan Ltd., a unit of Texas Instruments Inc., said it opened a plant in South Korea to manufacture control devices. 

The new plant, located in Chinchon about 60 miles from Seoul, will help meet increasing and diversifying demand for control products in South Korea, the company said. 

The plant will produce control devices used in motor vehicles and household appliances. 

John R. Stevens, 49 years old, was named senior executive vice president and chief operating officer, both new positions.
He will continue to report to Donald Pardus, president and chief executive officer.
Mr. Stevens was executive vice president of this electric-utility holding company.
Arthur A. Hatch, 59, was named executive vice president of the company.
He was previously president of the company's Eastern Edison Co. unit.
John D. Carney, 45, was named to succeed Mr. Hatch as president of Eastern Edison.
Previously he was vice president of Eastern Edison.
Robert P. Tassinari, 63, was named senior vice president of Eastern Utilities.
He was previously vice president. 

The U.S., claiming some success in its trade diplomacy, removed South Korea, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia from a list of countries it is closely watching for allegedly failing to honor U.S. patents, copyrights and other intellectual-property rights. 

However, five other countries -- China, Thailand, India, Brazil and Mexico -- will remain on that so-called priority watch list as a result of an interim review, U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills announced.
Under the new U.S. trade law, those countries could face accelerated unfair-trade investigations and stiff trade sanctions if they don't improve their protection of intellectual property by next spring. 

Mrs. Hills said many of the 25 countries that she placed under varying degrees of scrutiny have made "genuine progress" on this touchy issue.
She said there is "growing realization" around the world that denial of intellectual-property rights harms all trading nations, and particularly the "creativity and inventiveness of an {offending} country's own citizens." 

U.S. trade negotiators argue that countries with inadequate protections for intellectual-property rights could be hurting themselves by discouraging their own scientists and authors and by deterring U.S. high-technology firms from investing or marketing their best products there. 

Mrs. Hills lauded South Korea for creating an intellectual-property task force and special enforcement teams of police officers and prosecutors trained to pursue movie and book pirates.
Seoul also has instituted effective search-and-seizure procedures to aid these teams, she said. 

Taiwan has improved its standing with the U.S. by initialing a bilateral copyright agreement, amending its trademark law and introducing legislation to protect foreign movie producers from unauthorized showings of their films.
That measure could compel Taipei's growing number of small video-viewing parlors to pay movie producers for showing their films. 

Saudi Arabia, for its part, has vowed to enact a copyright law compatible with international standards and to apply the law to computer software as well as to literary works, Mrs. Hills said. 

These three countries aren't completely off the hook, though.
They will remain on a lower-priority list that includes 17 other countries.
Those countries -- including Japan, Italy, Canada, Greece and Spain -- are still of some concern to the U.S. but are deemed to pose less-serious problems for American patent and copyright owners than those on the "priority" list. 

Gary Hoffman, a Washington lawyer specializing in intellectual-property cases, said the threat of U.S. retaliation, combined with a growing recognition that protecting intellectual property is in a country's own interest, prompted the improvements made by South Korea, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia. "What this tells us is that U.S. trade law is working," he said.
He said Mexico could be one of the next countries to be removed from the priority list because of its efforts to craft a new patent law. 

Mrs. Hills said that the U.S. is still concerned about "disturbing developments in Turkey and continuing slow progress in Malaysia." She didn't elaborate, although earlier U.S. trade reports have complained of videocassette piracy in Malaysia and disregard for U.S. pharmaceutical patents in Turkey. 

The 1988 trade act requires Mrs. Hills to issue another review of the performance of these countries by April 30.
So far, Mrs. Hills hasn't deemed any cases bad enough to merit an accelerated investigation under the so-called special 301 provision of the act. 


Argentina said it will ask creditor banks to halve its foreign debt of $64 billion -- the third-highest in the developing world. 

The declaration by Economy Minister Nestor Rapanelli is believed to be the first time such an action has been called for by an Argentine official of such stature.
The Latin American nation has paid very little on its debt since early last year. 

"Argentina aspires to reach a reduction of 50% in the value of its external debt," Mr. Rapanelli said through his spokesman, Miguel Alurralde. 

Mr. Rapanelli met in August with U.S. Assistant Treasury Secretary David Mulford.
Argentine negotiator Carlos Carballo was in Washington and New York this week to meet with banks. 

Mr. Rapanelli recently has said the government of President Carlos Menem, who took office July 8, feels a significant reduction of principal and interest is the only way the debt problem may be solved.
But he has not said before that the country wants half the debt forgiven. 

(During its centennial year, The Wall Street Journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of American business history.) 

THREE COMPUTERS THAT CHANGED the face of personal computing were launched in 1977. 

That year the Apple II, Commodore Pet and Tandy TRS-80 came to market.
The computers were crude by today's standards.
Apple II owners, for example, had to use their television sets as screens and stored data on audiocassettes.
But Apple II was a major advance from Apple I, which was built in a garage by Stephen Wozniak and Steven Jobs for hobbyists such as the Homebrew Computer Club.
In addition, the Apple II was an affordable $1,298. 

Crude as they were, these early PCs triggered explosive product development in desktop models for the home and office. 

Big mainframe computers for business had been around for years.
But the new 1977 PCs -- unlike earlier built-from-kit types such as the Altair, Sol and IMSAI -- had keyboards and could store about two pages of data in their memories.
Current PCs are more than 50 times faster and have memory capacity 500 times greater than their 1977 counterparts. 

There were many pioneer PC contributors.
William Gates and Paul Allen in 1975 developed an early language-housekeeper system for PCs, and Gates became an industry billionaire six years after IBM adapted one of these versions in 1981.
Alan F. Shugart, currently chairman of Seagate Technology, led the team that developed the disk drives for PCs.
Dennis Hayes and Dale Heatherington, two Atlanta engineers, were co-developers of the internal modems that allow PCs to share data via the telephone. 

IBM, the world leader in computers, didn't offer its first PC until August 1981 as many other companies entered the market.
Today, PC shipments annually total some $38.3 billion world-wide. 

F.H. Faulding & Co., an Australian pharmaceuticals company, said its Moleculon Inc. affiliate acquired Kalipharma Inc. for $23 million. 

Kalipharma is a New Jersey-based pharmaceuticals concern that sells products under the Purepac label. 

Faulding said it owns 33% of Moleculon's voting stock and has an agreement to acquire an additional 19%.
That stake, together with its convertible preferred stock holdings, gives Faulding the right to increase its interest to 70% of Moleculon's voting stock. 

Oil production from Australia's Bass Strait fields will be raised by 11,000 barrels a day to about 321,000 barrels with the launch of the Whiting field, the first of five small fields scheduled to be brought into production before the end of 1990. 

Esso Australia Ltd., a unit of New York-based Exxon Corp., and Broken Hill Pty. operate the fields in a joint venture. 

Esso said the Whiting field started production Tuesday.
Output will be gradually increased until it reaches about 11,000 barrels a day.
The field has reserves of 21 million barrels.
Reserves for the five new fields total 50 million barrels. 

The Perch and Dolphin fields are expected to start producing early next year, and the Seahorse and Tarwhine fields later next year.
Esso said the fields were developed after the Australian government decided in 1987 to make the first 30 million barrels from new fields free of excise tax. 

R.P. Scherer Corp. said it completed the $10.2 million sale of its Southern Optical subsidiary to a group led by the unit's president, Thomas R. Sloan, and other managers. 

Following the acquisition of R.P. Scherer by a buy-out group led by Shearson Lehman Hutton earlier this year, the maker of gelatin capsules decided to divest itself of certain of its non-encapsulating businesses.
The sale of Southern Optical is a part of the program. 

The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that aren't produced in "significant quantities" in the U.S., the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions. 

The action came in response to a petition filed by Timex Inc. for changes in the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences for imports from developing nations.
Previously, watch imports were denied such duty-free treatment. 

Timex had requested duty-free treatment for many types of watches, covered by 58 different U.S. tariff classifications.
The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories, but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands." 

Timex is a major U.S. producer and seller of watches, including low-priced battery-operated watches assembled in the Philippines and other developing nations covered by the U.S. tariff preferences. 

U.S. trade officials said the Philippines and Thailand would be the main beneficiaries of the president's action. 

Imports of the types of watches that now will be eligible for duty-free treatment totaled about $37.3 million in 1988, a relatively small share of the $1.5 billion in U.S. watch imports that year, according to an aide to U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills. 

Magna International Inc. 's chief financial officer, James McAlpine, resigned and its chairman, Frank Stronach, is stepping in to help turn the automotive-parts manufacturer around, the company said. 

Mr. Stronach will direct an effort to reduce overhead and curb capital spending "until a more satisfactory level of profit is achieved and maintained," Magna said. 

Stephen Akerfeldt, currently vice president finance, will succeed Mr. McAlpine. 

An ambitious expansion has left Magna with excess capacity and a heavy debt load as the automotive industry enters a downturn.
The company has reported declines in operating profit in each of the past three years, despite steady sales growth. 

Magna recently cut its quarterly dividend in half and the company's Class A shares are wallowing far below their 52-week high of 16.125 Canadian dollars (US$13.73).
On the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday, Magna shares closed up 37.5 Canadian cents to C$9.625. 

Mr. Stronach, founder and controlling shareholder of Magna, resigned as chief executive officer last year to seek, unsuccessfully, a seat in Canada's Parliament. 

Analysts said Mr. Stronach wants to resume a more influential role in running the company.
They expect him to cut costs throughout the organization. 

The company said Mr. Stronach will personally direct the restructuring, assisted by Manfred Gingl, president and chief executive.
Neither they nor Mr. McAlpine could be reached for comment. 

Magna said Mr. McAlpine resigned to pursue a consulting career, with Magna as one of his clients. 

Lord Chilver, 63-year-old chairman of English China Clays PLC, was named a nonexecutive director of this British chemical company. 

Japanese investors nearly single-handedly bought up two new mortgage securities-based mutual funds totaling $701 million, the U.S. Federal National Mortgage Association said. 

The purchases show the strong interest of Japanese investors in U.S. mortgage-based instruments, Fannie Mae's chairman, David O. Maxwell, said at a news conference.
He said more than 90% of the funds were placed with Japanese institutional investors.
The rest went to investors from France and Hong Kong. 

Earlier this year, Japanese investors snapped up a similar, $570 million mortgage-backed securities mutual fund.
That fund was put together by Blackstone Group, a New York investment bank.
The latest two funds were assembled jointly by Goldman, Sachs & Co. of the U.S. and Japan's Daiwa Securities Co. 

The new, seven-year funds -- one offering a fixed-rate return and the other with a floating-rate return linked to the London interbank offered rate -- offer two key advantages to Japanese investors.
First, they are designed to eliminate the risk of prepayment -- mortgage-backed securities can be retired early if interest rates decline, and such prepayment forces investors to redeploy their money at lower rates.
Second, they channel monthly mortgage payments into semiannual payments, reducing the administrative burden on investors. 

By addressing those problems, Mr. Maxwell said, the new funds have become "extremely attractive to Japanese and other investors outside the U.S." 

Such devices have boosted Japanese investment in mortgage-backed securities to more than 1% of the $900 billion in such instruments outstanding, and their purchases are growing at a rapid rate.
They also have become large purchasers of Fannie Mae's corporate debt, buying $2.4 billion in Fannie Mae bonds during the first nine months of the year, or almost a tenth of the total amount issued. 

James L. Pate, 54-year-old executive vice president, was named a director of this oil concern, expanding the board to 14 members. 

LTV Corp. said a federal bankruptcy court judge agreed to extend until March 8, 1990, the period in which the steel, aerospace and energy products company has the exclusive right to file a reorganization plan. 

The company is operating under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code, giving it court protection from creditors' lawsuits while it attempts to work out a plan to pay its debts. 

Italian chemical giant Montedison S.p.
A., through its Montedison Acquisition N.V. indirect unit, began its $37-a-share tender offer for all the common shares outstanding of Erbamont N.V., a maker of pharmaceuticals incorporated in the Netherlands. 

The offer, advertised in today's editions of The Wall Street Journal, is scheduled to expire at the end of November. 

Montedison currently owns about 72% of Erbamont's common shares outstanding. 

The offer is being launched pursuant to a previously announced agreement between the companies. 

Japan's reserves of gold, convertible foreign currencies, and special drawing rights fell by a hefty $1.82 billion in October to $84.29 billion, the Finance Ministry said.
The total marks the sixth consecutive monthly decline. 

The protracted downturn reflects the intensity of Bank of Japan yen-support intervention since June, when the U.S. currency temporarily surged above the 150.00 yen level. 

The announcement follows a sharper $2.2 billion decline in the country's foreign reserves in September to $86.12 billion. 

Pick a country, any country. 

It's the latest investment craze sweeping Wall Street: a rash of new closed-end country funds, those publicly traded portfolios that invest in stocks of a single foreign country. 

No fewer than 24 country funds have been launched or registered with regulators this year, triple the level of all of 1988, according to Charles E. Simon & Co., a Washington-based research firm. 

The turf recently has ranged from Chile to Austria to Portugal.
Next week, the Philippine Fund's launch will be capped by a visit by Philippine President Corazon Aquino -- the first time a head of state has kicked off an issue at the Big Board here. 

The next province? "Anything's possible -- how about the New Guinea Fund?" quips George Foot, a managing partner at Newgate Management Associates of Northampton, Mass.
The recent explosion of country funds mirrors the "closed-end fund mania" of the 1920s, Mr. Foot says, when narrowly focused funds grew wildly popular.
They fell into oblivion after the 1929 crash. 

Unlike traditional open-end mutual funds, most of these one-country portfolios are the "closed-end" type, issuing a fixed number of shares that trade publicly. 

The surge brings to nearly 50 the number of country funds that are or soon will be listed in New York or London.
These funds now account for several billions of dollars in assets. 

"People are looking to stake their claims" now before the number of available nations runs out, says Michael Porter, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co., New York. 

Behind all the hoopla is some heavy-duty competition.
As individual investors have turned away from the stock market over the years, securities firms have scrambled to find new products that brokers find easy to sell.
And the firms are stretching their nets far and wide to do it. 

Financial planners often urge investors to diversify and to hold a smattering of international securities.
And many emerging markets have outpaced more mature markets, such as the U.S. and Japan.
Country funds offer an easy way to get a taste of foreign stocks without the hard research of seeking out individual companies. 

But it doesn't take much to get burned.
Political and currency gyrations can whipsaw the funds.
Another concern: The funds' share prices tend to swing more than the broader market.
When the stock market dropped nearly 7% Oct. 13, for instance, the Mexico Fund plunged about 18% and the Spain Fund fell 16%.
And most country funds were clobbered more than most stocks after the 1987 crash. 

What's so wild about the funds' frenzy right now is that many are trading at historically fat premiums to the value of their underlying portfolios.
After trading at an average discount of more than 20% in late 1987 and part of last year, country funds currently trade at an average premium of 6%.
The reason: Share prices of many of these funds this year have climbed much more sharply than the foreign stocks they hold. 

It's probably worth paying a premium for funds that invest in markets that are partially closed to foreign investors, such as South Korea, some specialists say.
But some European funds recently have skyrocketed; Spain Fund has surged to a startling 120% premium.
It has been targeted by Japanese investors as a good long-term play tied to 1992's European economic integration.
And several new funds that aren't even fully invested yet have jumped to trade at big premiums. 

"I'm very alarmed to see these rich valuations," says Smith Barney's Mr. Porter. 

The newly fattened premiums reflect the increasingly global marketing of some country funds, Mr. Porter suggests.
Unlike many U.S. investors, those in Asia or Europe seeking foreign-stock exposure may be less resistant to paying higher prices for country funds. 

"There may be an international viewpoint cast on the funds listed here," Mr. Porter says. 

Nonetheless, plenty of U.S. analysts and money managers are aghast at the lofty trading levels of some country funds.
They argue that U.S. investors often can buy American depositary receipts on the big stocks in many funds; these so-called ADRs represent shares of foreign companies traded in the U.S.
That way investors can essentially buy the funds without paying the premium. 

For people who insist on jumping in now to buy the funds, Newgate's Mr. Foot says: "The only advice I have for these folks is that those who come to the party late had better be ready to leave quickly." 

In another reflection that the growth of the economy is leveling off, the government said that orders for manufactured goods and spending on construction failed to rise in September. 

Meanwhile, the National Association of Purchasing Management said its latest survey indicated that the manufacturing economy contracted in October for the sixth consecutive month.
Its index inched up to 47.6% in October from 46% in September.
Any reading below 50% suggests the manufacturing sector is generally declining. 

The purchasing managers, however, also said that orders turned up in October after four months of decline. 

Factories booked $236.74 billion in orders in September, nearly the same as the $236.79 billion in August, the Commerce Department said.
If not for a 59.6% surge in orders for capital goods by defense contractors, factory orders would have fallen 2.1%. 

In a separate report, the department said construction spending ran at an annual rate of $415.6 billion, not significantly different from the $415.8 billion reported for August.
Private construction spending was down, but government building activity was up.
The figures in both reports were adjusted to remove the effects of usual seasonal patterns, but weren't adjusted for inflation. 

Kenneth Mayland, economist for Society Corp., a Cleveland bank, said demand for exports of factory goods is beginning to taper off.
At the same time, the drop in interest rates since the spring has failed to revive the residential construction industry. 

"What sector is stepping forward to pick up the slack?" he asked. "I draw a blank." 

By most measures, the nation's industrial sector is now growing very slowly -- if at all.
Factory payrolls fell in September.
So did the Federal Reserve Board's industrial-production index. 

Yet many economists aren't predicting that the economy is about to slip into recession.
They cite a lack of "imbalances" that provide early warning signals of a downturn. 

Inventories are closely watched for such clues, for instance.
Economists say a buildup in inventories can provoke cutbacks in production that can lead to a recession.
But yesterday's factory orders report had good news on that front: it said factory inventories fell 0.1% in September, the first decline since February 1987. 

"This conforms to the `soft landing' scenario," said Elliott Platt, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. "I don't see any signs that inventories are excessive." A soft landing is an economic slowdown that eases inflation without leading to a recession. 

The department said orders for nondurable goods -- those intended to last fewer than three years -- fell 0.3% in September to $109.73 billion after climbing 0.9% the month before.
Orders for durable goods were up 0.2% to $127.03 billion after rising 3.9% the month before.
The department previously estimated that durable-goods orders fell 0.1% in September. 

Factory shipments fell 1.6% to $234.4 billion after rising 5.4% in August.
Shipments have been relatively level since January, the Commerce Department noted. 

Manufacturers' backlogs of unfilled orders rose 0.5% in September to $497.34 billion, helped by strength in the defense capital goods sector.
Excluding these orders, backlogs declined 0.3%. 

In its construction spending report, the Commerce Department said residential construction, which accounts for nearly half of all construction spending, was off 0.9% in September to an annual rate of $191.9 billion.
David Berson, economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association, predicted the drop in interest rates eventually will boost spending on single-family homes, but probably not until early next year. 

Spending on private, nonresidential construction was off 2.6% to an annual rate of $99.1 billion with no sector showing strength.
Government construction spending rose 4.3% to $88 billion. 

After adjusting for inflation, the Commerce Department said construction spending didn't change in September. 

For the first nine months of the year, total construction spending ran about 2% above last year's level. 

The government's construction spending figures contrast with a report issued earlier in the week by McGraw-Hill Inc. 's F.W. Dodge Group.
Dodge reported an 8% increase in construction contracts awarded in September.
The goverment counts money as it is spent; Dodge counts contracts when they are awarded.
The government includes money spent on residential renovation; Dodge doesn't. 

Although the purchasing managers' index continues to indicate a slowing economy, it isn't signaling an imminent recession, said Robert Bretz, chairman of the association's survey committee and director of materials management at Pitney Bowes Inc., Stamford, Conn.
He said the index would have to be in the low 40% range for several months to be considered a forecast of recession. 

The report offered new evidence that the nation's export growth, though still continuing, may be slowing.
Only 19% of the purchasing managers reported better export orders in October, down from 27% in September.
And 8% said export orders were down last month, compared with 6% the month before. 

The purhasing managers' report also added evidence that inflation is under control.
For the fifth consecutive month, purchasing managers said prices for the goods they purchased fell.
The decline was even steeper than in September. 

They also said that vendors were delivering goods more quickly in October than they had for each of the five previous months.
Economists consider that a sign that inflationary pressures are abating.
When demand is stronger than suppliers can handle and delivery times lengthen, prices tend to rise. 

The purchasing managers' report is based on data provided by more than 250 purchasing executives.
Each of the survey's indicators gauges the difference between the number of purchasers reporting improvement in a particular area and the number reporting a worsening. 

For the first time, the October survey polled members on imports.
It found that of the 73% who import, 10% said they imported more in October and 12% said they imported less than the previous month.
While acknowledging one month's figures don't prove a trend, Mr. Bretz said, "It does lead you to suspect imports are going down, or at least not increasing that much." 

Items listed as being in short supply numbered only about a dozen, but they included one newcomer: milk and milk powder. "It's an odd thing to put on the list," Mr. Bretz noted.
He said that for the second month in a row, food processors reported a shortage of nonfat dry milk.
They blamed increased demand for dairy products at a time of exceptionally high U.S. exports of dry milk, coupled with very low import quotas. 

Pamela Sebastian in New York contributed to this article. 

Here are the Commerce Department's figures for construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rates. 

Here are the Commerce Department's latest figures for manufacturers in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. 

Cathryn Rice could hardly believe her eyes.
While giving the Comprehensive Test of Basic Skills to ninth graders at Greenville High School last March 16, she spotted a student looking at crib sheets. 

She had seen cheating before, but these notes were uncanny. "A stockbroker is an example of a profession in trade and finance. . . . At the end of World War II, Germany surrendered before Japan. . . . The Senate-House conference committee is used when a bill is passed by the House and Senate in different forms." 

Virtually word for word, the notes matched questions and answers on the social-studies section of the test the student was taking.
In fact, the student had the answers to almost all of the 40 questions in that section.
The student surrendered the notes, but not without a protest. "My teacher said it was OK for me to use the notes on the test," he said. 

The teacher in question was Nancy Yeargin -- considered by many students and parents to be one of the best at the school.
Confronted, Mrs. Yeargin admitted she had given the questions and answers two days before the examination to two low-ability geography classes.
She had gone so far as to display the questions on an overhead projector and underline the answers. 

Mrs. Yeargin was fired and prosecuted under an unusual South Carolina law that makes it a crime to breach test security.
In September, she pleaded guilty and paid a $500 fine.
Her alternative was 90 days in jail. 

Her story is partly one of personal downfall.
She was an unstinting teacher who won laurels and inspired students, but she will probably never teach again.
In her wake she left the bitterness and anger of a principal who was her friend and now calls her a betrayer; of colleagues who say she brought them shame; of students and parents who defended her and insist she was treated harshly; and of school-district officials stunned that despite the bald-faced nature of her actions, she became something of a local martyr. 

Mrs. Yeargin's case also casts some light on the dark side of school reform, where pressures on teachers are growing and where high-stakes testing has enhanced the temptation to cheat.
The 1987 statute Mrs. Yeargin violated was designed to enforce provisions of South Carolina's school-improvement laws.
Prosecutors alleged that she was trying to bolster students' scores to win a bonus under the state's 1984 Education Improvement Act.
The bonus depended on her ability to produce higher student-test scores. 

"There is incredible pressure on school systems and teachers to raise test scores," says Walt Haney, an education professor and testing specialist at Boston College. "So efforts to beat the tests are also on the rise." And most disturbing, it is educators, not students, who are blamed for much of the wrongdoing. 

A 50-state study released in September by Friends for Education, an Albuquerque, N.M., school-research group, concluded that "outright cheating by American educators" is "common." The group says standardized achievement test scores are greatly inflated because teachers often "teach the test" as Mrs. Yeargin did, although most are never caught. 

Evidence of widespread cheating has surfaced in several states in the last year or so.
California's education department suspects adult responsibility for erasures at 40 schools that changed wrong answers to right ones on a statewide test.
After numerous occurrences of questionable teacher help to students, Texas is revising its security practices. 

And sales of test-coaching booklets for classroom instruction are booming.
These materials, including Macmillan/McGraw-Hill School Publishing Co. 's Scoring High and Learning Materials -- are nothing short of sophisticated crib sheets, according to some recent academic research.
By using them, teachers -- with administrative blessing -- telegraph to students beforehand the precise areas on which a test will concentrate, and sometimes give away a few exact questions and answers.
Use of Scoring High is widespread in South Carolina and common in Greenville County, Mrs. Yeargin's school district. 

Experts say there isn't another state in the country where tests mean as much as they do in South Carolina. 

Under the state's Education Improvement Act, low test scores can block students' promotions or force entire districts into wrenching, state-supervised "interventions" that can mean firings.
High test scores, on the other hand, bring recognition and extra money -- a new computer lab for a school, grants for special projects, a bonus for the superintendent. 

And South Carolina says it is getting results.
Since the reforms went in place, for example, no state has posted a higher rate of improvement on the Scholastic Aptitude Test than South Carolina, although the state still posts the lowest average score of the about 21 states who use the SAT as the primary college entrance examination.
Critics say South Carolina is paying a price by stressing improved test scores so much.
Friends of Education rates South Carolina one of the worst seven states in its study on academic cheating.
Says the organization's founder, John Cannell, prosecuting Mrs. Yeargin is "a way for administrators to protect themselves and look like they take cheating seriously, when in fact they don't take it seriously at all." 

Paul Sandifer, director of testing for the South Carolina department of education, says Mr. Cannell's allegations of cheating "are purely without foundation," and based on unfair inferences.
Partly because of worries about potential abuse, however, he says the state will begin keeping closer track of achievement-test preparation booklets next spring. 

South Carolina's reforms were designed for schools like Greenville High School.
Standing on a shaded hill in a run-down area of this old textile city, the school has educated many of South Carolina's best and brightest, including the state's last two governors, Nobel Prize winning physicist Charles Townes and actress Joanne Woodward.
But by the early 1980s, its glory had faded like the yellow bricks of its broad facade. 

"It was full of violence and gangs and kids cutting class," says Linda Ward, the school's principal. "Crime was awful, test scores were low, and there was no enrollment in honors programs." 

Mrs. Ward took over in 1986, becoming the school's seventh principal in 15 years.
Her immediate predecessor suffered a nervous breakdown.
Prior to his term, a teacher bled to death in the halls, stabbed by a student.
Academically, Mrs. Ward says, the school was having trouble serving in harmony its two disparate, and evenly split, student groups: a privileged white elite from old monied neighborhoods and blacks, many of them poor, from run-down, inner city neighborhoods. 

Mrs. Ward resolved to clean out "deadwood" in the school's faculty and restore safety, and she also had some new factors working in her behalf.
One was statewide school reform, which raised overall educational funding and ushered in a new public spirit for school betterment.
Another was Nancy Yeargin, who came to Greenville in 1985, full of the energy and ambitions that reformers wanted to reward. 

"Being a teacher just became my life," says the 37-year-old Mrs. Yeargin, a teacher for 12 years before her dismissal. "I loved the school, its history.
I even dreamt about school and new things to do with my students." 

While Mrs. Ward fired and restructured staff and struggled to improve curriculum, Mrs. Yeargin worked 14-hour days and fast became a student favorite.
In 1986-87 and 1987-88, she applied for and won bonus pay under the reform law.
Encouraged by Mrs. Ward, Mrs. Yeargin taught honor students in the state "teacher cadet" program, a reform creation designed to encourage good students to consider teaching as a career.
She won grant money for the school, advised cheerleaders, ran the pep club, proposed and taught a new "Cultural Literacy" class in Western Civilization and was chosen by the school PTA as "Teacher of the Year." 

"She was an inspirational lady; she had it all together," says Laura Dobson, a freshman at the University of South Carolina who had Mrs. Yeargin in the teacher-cadet class last year.
She says that because of Mrs. Yeargin she gave up ambitions in architecture and is studying to become a teacher.
Mary Beth Marchand, a Greenville 11th grader, also says Mrs. Yeargin inspired her to go into education. "She taught us more in Western Civilization than I've ever learned in other classes," says Kelli Green, a Greenville senior. 

In the classroom, students say, Mrs. Yeargin distinguished herself by varying teaching approaches -- forcing kids to pair up to complete classroom work or using college-bowl type competitions.
On weekends, she came to work to prepare study plans or sometimes, even to polish the furniture in her classroom. 

"She just never gave it up," says Mary Marchand, Mary Beth's mother. "You'd see her correcting homework in the stands at a football game." 

Some fellow teachers, however, viewed Mrs. Yeargin as cocky and too yielding to students.
Mrs. Ward says she often defended her to colleagues who called her a grandstander.
Pressures began to build.
Friends told her she was pushing too hard.
Because of deteriorating hearing, she told colleagues she feared she might not be able to teach much longer. 

Mrs. Yeargin's extra work was also helping her earn points in the state's incentive-bonus program.
But the most important source of points was student improvement on tests.
Huge gains by her students in 1987 and 1988 meant a total of $5,000 in bonuses over two years -- a meaningful addition to her annual salary of $23,000. 

Winning a bonus for a third year wasn't that important to her, Mrs. Yeargin insists.
But others at Greenville High say she was eager to win -- if not for money, then for pride and recognition.
Mary Elizabeth Ariail, another social-studies teacher, says she believed Mrs. Yeargin wanted to keep her standing high so she could get a new job that wouldn't demand good hearing.
Indeed, Mrs. Yeargin was interested in a possible job with the state teacher cadet program. 

Last March, after attending a teaching seminar in Washington, Mrs. Yeargin says she returned to Greenville two days before annual testing feeling that she hadn't prepared her low-ability geography students adequately.
When test booklets were passed out 48 hours ahead of time, she says she copied questions in the social studies section and gave the answers to students. 

Mrs. Yeargin admits she made a big mistake but insists her motives were correct. "I was trying to help kids in an unfair testing situation," she says. "Only five of the 40 questions were geography questions.
The rest were history, sociology, finance -- subjects they never had." 

Mrs. Yeargin says that she also wanted to help lift Greenville High School's overall test scores, usually near the bottom of 14 district high schools in rankings carried annually by local newspapers.
Mostly, she says, she wanted to prevent the damage to self-esteem that her low-ability students would suffer from doing badly on the test. "These kids broke my heart," she says. "A whole day goes by and no one even knows they're alive.
They desperately needed somebody who showed they cared for them, who loved them.
The last thing they needed was another drag-down blow." 

School officials and prosecutors say Mrs. Yeargin is lying.
They found students in an advanced class a year earlier who said she gave them similar help, although because the case wasn't tried in court, this evidence was never presented publicly. "That pretty much defeats any inkling that she was out to help the poor underprivileged child," says Joe Watson, the prosecutor in the case, who is also president of Greenville High School's alumni association.
Mrs. Yeargin concedes that she went over the questions in the earlier class, adding: "I wanted to help all" students. 

Mr. Watson says Mrs. Yeargin never complained to school officials that the standardized test was unfair. "Do I have much sympathy for her?" Mr. Watson asks. "Not really.
I believe in the system.
I believe you have to use the system to change it.
What she did was like taking the law into your own hands." 

Mrs. Ward says that when the cheating was discovered, she wanted to avoid the morale-damaging public disclosure that a trial would bring.
She says she offered Mrs. Yeargin a quiet resignation and thought she could help save her teaching certificate.
Mrs. Yeargin declined. "She said something like `You just want to make it easy for the school. ' I was dumbfounded," Mrs. Ward recalls. "It was like someone had turned a knife in me." 

To the astonishment and dismay of her superiors and legal authorities -- and perhaps as a measure of the unpopularity of standardized tests -- Mrs. Yeargin won widespread local support.
The school-board hearing at which she was dismissed was crowded with students, teachers and parents who came to testify on her behalf.
Supportive callers decried unfair testing, not Mrs. Yeargin, on a local radio talk show on which she appeared. 

The show didn't give the particulars of Mrs. Yeargin's offense, saying only that she helped students do better on the test. "The message to the board of education out of all this is we've got to take a serious look at how we're doing our curriculum and our testing policies in this state," said the talk-show host.
Editorials in the Greenville newspaper allowed that Mrs. Yeargin was wrong, but also said the case showed how testing was being overused. 

The radio show "enraged us," says Mrs. Ward.
Partly because of the show, Mr. Watson says, the district decided not to recommend Mrs. Yeargin for a first-time offenders program that could have expunged the charges and the conviction from her record.
And legal authorities cranked up an investigation worthy of a murder case.
Over 50 witnesses, mostly students, were interviewed. 

At Greenville High School, meanwhile, some students -- especially on the cheerleading squad -- were crushed. "It's hard to explain to a 17-year-old why someone they like had to go," says Mrs. Ward.
Soon, T-shirts appeared in the corridors that carried the school's familiar red-and-white GHS logo on the front.
On the back, the shirts read, "We have all the answers." Many colleagues are angry at Mrs. Yeargin. "She did a lot of harm," says Cathryn Rice, who had discovered the crib notes. "We work damn hard at what we do for damn little pay, and what she did cast unfair aspersions on all of us." 

But several teachers also say the incident casts doubt on the wisdom of evaluating teachers or schools by using standardized test scores.
Says Gayle Key, a mathematics teacher, "The incentive pay thing has opened up a can of worms.
There may be others doing what she did." 

Mrs. Yeargin says she pleaded guilty because she realized it would no longer be possible to win reinstatement, and because she was afraid of further charges.
Mrs. Ward, for one, was relieved.
Despite the strong evidence against Mrs. Yeargin, popular sentiment was so strong in her favor, Mrs. Ward says, that "I'm afraid a jury wouldn't have convicted her." 
Japanese investment in Southeast Asia is propelling the region toward economic integration. 

Interviews with analysts and business people in the U.S. suggest that Japanese capital may produce the economic cooperation that Southeast Asian politicians have pursued in fits and starts for decades.
But Japan's power in the region also is sparking fears of domination and posing fresh policy questions. 

The flow of Japanese funds has set in motion "a process whereby these economies will be knitted together by the great Japanese investment machine," says Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International Corp. 

In the past five years, Japanese companies have tripled their commitments in Asia to $5.57 billion.
In Thailand, for example, the government's Board of Investment approved $705.6 million of Japanese investment in 1988, 10 times the U.S. investment figure for the year.
Japan's commitment in Southeast Asia also includes steep increases in foreign assistance and trade. 

Asia's other cash-rich countries are following Japan's lead and pumping capital into the region.
In Taiwan and South Korea, rising wages are forcing manufacturers to seek other overseas sites for labor-intensive production.
These nations, known as Asia's "little tigers," also are contributing to Southeast Asia's integration, but their influence will remain subordinate to Japan's. 

For recipient countries such as Thailand and Malaysia, the investment will provide needed jobs and spur growth.
But Asian nations' harsh memories of their military domination by Japan in the early part of this century make them fearful of falling under Japanese economic hegemony now. 

Because of budget constraints in Washington, the U.S. encourages Japan to share economic burdens in the region.
But it resists yielding political ground.
In the coming decade, analysts say, U.S.-Japanese relations will be tested as Tokyo comes to terms with its new status as the region's economic behemoth. 

Japan's swelling investment in Southeast Asia is part of its economic evolution.
In the past decade, Japanese manufacturers concentrated on domestic production for export.
In the 1990s, spurred by rising labor costs and the strong yen, these companies will increasingly turn themselves into multinationals with plants around the world.
To capture the investment, Southeast Asian nations will move to accommodate Japanese business. 

These nations' internal decisions "will be made in a way not to offend their largest aid donor, largest private investor and largest lender," says Richard Drobnick, director of the international business and research program at the University of Southern California's Graduate School of Business. 

Japanese money will help turn Southeast Asia into a more cohesive economic region.
But, analysts say, Asian cooperation isn't likely to parallel the European Common Market approach.
Rather, Japanese investment will spur integration of certain sectors, says Kent Calder, a specialist in East Asian economies at the Woodrow Wilson School for Public and Internatonal Affairs at Princeton University.
In electronics, for example, a Japanese company might make television picture tubes in Japan, assemble the sets in Malaysia and export them to Indonesia. 

"The effect will be to pull Asia together not as a common market but as an integrated production zone," says Goldman Sachs's Mr. Hormats. 

Countries in the region also are beginning to consider a framework for closer economic and political ties.
The economic and foreign ministers of 12 Asian and Pacific nations will meet in Australia next week to discuss global trade issues as well as regional matters such as transportation and telecommunications.
Participants will include the U.S., Australia, Canada, Japan, South Korea and New Zealand as well as the six members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations -- Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines and Brunei. 

In addition, the U.S. this year offered its own plan for cooperation around the Pacific rim in a major speech by Secretary of State James Baker, following up a proposal made in January by Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke. 

The Baker proposal reasserts Washington's intention to continue playing a leading political role in the region. "In Asia, as in Europe, a new order is taking shape," Mr. Baker said. "The U.S., with its regional friends, must play a crucial role in designing its architecture." 

But maintaining U.S. influence will be difficult in the face of Japanese dominance in the region.
Japan not only outstrips the U.S. in investment flows but also outranks it in trade with most Southeast Asian countries (although the U.S. remains the leading trade partner for all of Asia).
Moreover, the Japanese government, now the world's largest aid donor, is pumping far more assistance into the region than the U.S. is.
While U.S. officials voice optimism about Japan's enlarged role in Asia, they also convey an undertone of caution. "There's an understanding on the part of the U.S. that Japan has to expand its functions" in Asia, says J. Michael Farren, undersecretary of commerce for trade. "If they approach it with a benevolent, altruistic attitude, there will be a net gain for everyone." 

Some Asian nations are apprehensive about Washington's demand that Tokyo step up its military spending to ease the U.S. security burden in the region.
The issue is further complicated by uncertainty over the future of the U.S.'s leases on military bases in the Philippines and by a possible U.S. troop reduction in South Korea.
Many Asians regard a U.S. presence as a desirable counterweight to Japanese influence. 

"No one wants the U.S. to pick up its marbles and go home," Mr. Hormats says. 

For their part, Taiwan and South Korea are expected to step up their own investments in the next decade to try to slow the Japanese juggernaut. 

"They don't want Japan to monopolize the region and sew it up," says Chong-sik Lee, professor of East Asian politics at the University of Pennsylvania. 
A seat on the Chicago Board of Trade was sold for $350,000, down $16,000 from the previous sale last Friday. 

Seats currently are quoted at $331,000, bid, and $350,000, asked. 

The record price for a full membership on the exchange is $550,000, set Aug. 31, 1987. 


This is the year the negative ad, for years a secondary presence in most political campaigns, became the main event. 

The irony is that the attack commercial, after getting a boost in last year's presidential campaign, has come of age in an off-off election year with only a few contests scattered across the country. 

But in the three leading political contests of 1989, the negative ads have reached new levels of hostility, raising fears that this kind of mudslinging, empty of significant issues, is ushering in a new era of campaigns without content. 

"Now," says Joseph Napolitan, a pioneer in political television, "the idea is to attack first, last and always." 

A trend that started with the first stirrings of politics, accelerated with the dawn of the television age and became a sometimes-tawdry art form in 1988, has reached an entirely new stage. 

"To get people's attention these days," says Douglas Bailey, a political consultant, "your TV ad needs to be bold and entertaining, and, more often than not, that means confrontational.
And, unlike a few years ago, you don't even have to worry whether the ad is truthful." 

In 1989, as often as not, the principal fights in the major campaigns are prompted by the ads themselves. 

Take a look, then, at the main attack commercials that set the tone for Tuesday's elections in New York City, New Jersey and Virginia: 

New York City: The screen fills with a small, tight facial shot of David Dinkins, Democratic candidate for mayor of New York City. "David Dinkins failed to file his income taxes for four straight years," says a disembodied male voice. 

And then this television commercial, paid for by Republican Rudolph Giuliani's campaign and produced by Roger Ailes, the master of negative TV ads, really gets down to business.
Mr. Dinkins, the ad charges, also failed to report his campaign contributions accurately, hid his links to a failing insurance company and paid a convicted kidnapper "through a phony organization with no members, no receipts and no office." 

"David Dinkins," says the kicker, "Why does he always wait until he's caught?" 

"Nasty innuendoes," says John Siegal, Mr. Dinkins's issues director, "designed to prosecute a case of political corruption that simply doesn't exist." 

Stung by the Giuliani ads, Mr. Dinkins's TV consultants, Robert Shrum and David Doak, finally unleashed a negative ad of their own.
The screen shows two distorted, unrecognizable photos, presumably of two politicians. "Compare two candidates for mayor," says the announcer. "One says he's for banning cop-killer bullets.
The other has opposed a ban on cop-killer bullets.
One claims he's pro-choice.
The other has opposed a woman's right to choose." 

"Funny thing," says the kicker, "both these candidates are named Rudolph Giuliani." 

Who's telling the truth?
Everybody -- and nobody.
It's a classic situation of ads that are true but not always fully accurate. 

Mr. Dinkins did fail to file his income taxes for four years, but he insists he voluntarily admitted the "oversight" when he was being considered for a city job.
He was on the board of an insurance company with financial problems, but he insists he made no secret of it.
The city's Campaign Finance Board has refused to pay Mr. Dinkins $95,142 in matching funds because his campaign records are incomplete.
The campaign has blamed these reporting problems on computer errors.
And, says Mr. Dinkins, he didn't know the man his campaign paid for a get-out-the-vote effort had been convicted of kidnapping.
But, say Mr. Dinkins's managers, he did have an office and his organization did have members. 

Mr. Giuliani's campaign chairman, Peter Powers, says the Dinkins ad is "deceptive." The other side, he argues, "knows Giuliani has always been pro-choice, even though he has personal reservations.
They know he is generally opposed to cop-killer bullets, but that he had some reservations about the language in the legislation." 

Virginia: Democratic Lt. Gov. Douglas Wilder opened his gubernatorial battle with Republican Marshall Coleman with an abortion commercial produced by Frank Greer that analysts of every political persuasion agree was a tour de force.
Against a shot of Monticello superimposed on an American flag, an announcer talks about the "strong tradition of freedom and individual liberty" that Virginians have nurtured for generations.
Then, just as an image of the statue of Thomas Jefferson dissolves from the screen, the announcer continues: "On the issue of abortion, Marshall Coleman wants to take away your right to choose and give it to the politicians." 

That commercial -- which said Mr. Coleman wanted to take away the right of abortion "even in cases of rape and incest," a charge Mr. Coleman denies -- changed the dynamics of the campaign, transforming it, at least in part, into a referendum on abortion.
The ad prompted Mr. Coleman, the former Virginia attorney general, to launch a series of advertisements created by Bob Goodman and designed to shake Mr. Wilder's support among the very women who were attracted by the abortion ad. 

The Coleman counterattack featured a close-up of a young woman in shadows and the ad suggested that she was recalling an unpleasant courtroom ordeal.
A voice says, "C'mon, now, don't you have boyfriends?" Then an announcer interjects: "It was Douglas Wilder who introduced a bill to force rape victims age 13 and younger to be interrogated about their private lives by lawyers for accused rapists.
So the next time Mr. Wilder talks about the rights of women, ask him about this law he tried to pass." 

Mr. Wilder did introduce such legislation 17 years ago, but he did so at the request of a constituent, a common legislative technique used by lawmakers.
The legislation itself noted that it was introduced "by request," and in 1983 Mr. Wilder introduced a bill to protect rape victims from unfounded interrogation. 

"People have grown tired of these ads and Coleman has gotten the stigma of being a negative campaigner," says Mark Rozell, a political scientist at Mary Washington College. "Wilder has managed to get across the idea that Coleman will say anything to get elected governor and -- more important -- has been able to put the onus for all the negative campaigning on Coleman." 

Mr. Coleman said this week that he would devote the remainder of the political season to positive campaigning, but the truce lasted only hours.
By Tuesday night, television stations were carrying new ads featuring Mr. Coleman himself raising questions about Mr. Wilder's sensitivity to rape victims. 

New Jersey: The attacks began when Democratic Rep. James Florio aired an ad featuring a drawing of Pinocchio and a photograph of Mr. Florio's rival, Republican Rep. Jim Courter. "Remember Pinocchio?" says a female voice. "Consider Jim Courter." 

And then this commercial, produced by Bob Squier, gets down to its own mean and dirty business.
Pictures of rusted oil drums swim into focus, and the female voice purrs, "That hazardous waste on his {Mr.
Courter's} property -- the neighbors are suing for consumer fraud." And the nose on Mr. Courter's face grows. 

The only fraud involved, cry Mr. Courter's partisans, is the Florio commercial itself, and so the Courter campaign has responded with its own Pinocchio commercial, produced by Mr. Ailes.
In this one, the screen fills with photographs of both candidates. "Who's really lying?" asks a female voice. "Florio's lying," the voice goes on, because "the barrel on Courter's land . . . contained heating oil, was cleaned up and caused no pollution." 

Mr. Courter's long nose shrinks while Mr. Florio's grows. 

Who's telling the truth?
Stephen Salmore, a political scientist at New Jersey's Eagleton Institute, says it's another example of an ad that's true but not fully accurate.
Barrels were dumped on the Courter property, a complaint was made, but there is no evidence the barrels were a serious threat to the environment. 

Even so, according to Mr. Salmore, the ad was "devastating" because it raised questions about Mr. Courter's credibility.
But it's building on a long tradition.
In 1966, on route to a re-election rout of Democrat Frank O'Connor, GOP Gov. Nelson Rockefeller of New York appeared in person saying, "If you want to keep the crime rates high, O'Connor is your man." 

Boeing Co. said it is discussing plans with three of its regular Japanese suppliers to possibly help build a larger version of its popular 767 twin-jet. 

The discussions are still in preliminary stages, and the specific details haven't been worked out between the Seattle aerospace company and Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd., Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. and Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. 

The three Japanese companies build the body sections of the 767, accounting for a combined 15% of the aircraft.
Japanese press reports have speculated that the Japanese contribution could rise to between 20% and 25% under the new program. 

If Boeing goes ahead with the larger 767, the plane could hit the market in the mid-1990s. 

As an actor, Charles Lane isn't the inheritor of Charlie Chaplin's spirit.
Steve Martin has already laid his claim to that. 

But it is Mr. Lane, as movie director, producer and writer, who has been obsessed with refitting Chaplin's Little Tramp in a contemporary way.
In 1976, as a film student at the Purchase campus of the State University of New York, Mr. Lane shot "A Place in Time," a 36-minute black-and-white film about a sketch artist, a man of the streets.
Now, 13 years later, Mr. Lane has revived his Artist in a full-length movie called "Sidewalk Stories," a poignant piece of work about a modern-day tramp.
Of course, if the film contained dialogue, Mr. Lane's Artist would be called a homeless person.
So would the Little Tramp, for that matter. 

I say "contained dialogue" because "Sidewalk Stories" isn't really silent at all.
Composer Marc Marder, a college friend of Mr. Lane's who earns his living playing the double bass in classical music ensembles, has prepared an exciting, eclectic score that tells you what the characters are thinking and feeling far more precisely than intertitles, or even words, would. 

Much of Mr. Lane's film takes a highly romanticized view of life on the streets (though probably no more romanticized than Mr. Chaplin's notion of the Tramp as the good-hearted free spirit).
Filmed in lovely black and white by Bill Dill, the New York streets of "Sidewalk Stories" seem benign.
On Wall Street men and women walk with great purpose, noticing one another only when they jostle for cabs.
The Artist hangs out in Greenwich Village, on a strip of Sixth Avenue populated by jugglers, magicians and other good-natured hustlers. (This clearly is not real life: no crack dealers, no dead-eyed men selling four-year-old copies of Cosmopolitan, no one curled up in a cardboard box.) 

The Artist has his routine.
He spends his days sketching passers-by, or trying to.
At night he returns to the condemned building he calls home.
His life, including his skirmishes with a competing sketch artist, seems carefree.
He is his own man. 

Then, just as the Tramp is given a blind girl to cure in "City Lights," the Artist is put in charge of returning a two-year-old waif (Nicole Alysia), whose father has been murdered by thugs, to her mother.
This cute child turns out to be a blessing and a curse.
She gives the Artist a sense of purpose, but also alerts him to the serious inadequacy of his vagrant life.
The beds at the Bowery Mission seem far drearier when he has to tuck a little girl into one of them at night. 

To further load the stakes, Mr. Lane dreamed up a highly improbable romance for the Artist, with a young woman who owns her own children's shop and who lives in an expensive high-rise apartment building.
This story line might resonate more strongly if Mr. Lane had as strong a presence in front of the camera as he does behind it. 

Mr. Lane's final purpose isn't to glamorize the Artist's vagabond existence.
He has a point he wants to make, and he makes it, with a great deal of force.
The movie ends with sound, the sound of street people talking, and there isn't anything whimsical or enviable in those rough, beaten voices. 

The French film maker Claude Chabrol has managed another kind of weird achievement with his "Story of Women." He has made a harsh, brilliant picture -- one that's captivating -- about a character who, viewed from the most sympathetic angle, would seem disagreeable. 

Yet this woman, Marie-Louise Giraud, carries historical significance, both as one of the last women to be executed in France and as a symbol of the Vichy government's hypocrisy.
While Vichy collaborated with the Germans during World War II in the deaths of thousands of Resistance fighters and Jews, its officials needed a diversionary symbolic traitor.
Marie-Louise, a small-time abortionist, was their woman. 

She became an abortionist accidentally, and continued because it enabled her to buy jam, cocoa and other war-rationed goodies.
She was untrained and, in one botched job killed a client.
Her remorse was shallow and brief.
Although she was kind and playful to her children, she was dreadful to her war-damaged husband; she openly brought her lover into their home.
As presented by Mr. Chabrol, and played with thin-lipped intensity by Isabelle Huppert, Marie-Louise (called Marie Latour in the film) was not a nice person.
But she didn't deserve to have her head chopped off. 

There is very little to recommend "Old Gringo," a confused rendering of the Carlos Fuentes novel of the Mexican Revolution.
Most of the picture is taken up with endless scenes of many people either fighting or eating and drinking to celebrate victory.
I mention the picture only because many bad movies have a bright spot, and this one has Gregory Peck, in a marvelously loose and energetic portrayal of an old man who wants to die the way he wants to die. 

Video Tip: Before seeing "Sidewalk Stories," take a look at "City Lights," Chaplin's Tramp at his finest. 
BRAMALEA Ltd. said it agreed to issue 100 million Canadian dollars (US$85.1 million) of 10.5% senior debentures due Nov. 30, 1999, together with 100,000 bond purchase warrants.
The Toronto-based real estate concern said each bond warrant entitles the holder to buy C$1,000 principal amount of debentures at par plus accrued interest to the date of purchase.
The warrants expire Nov. 30, 1990.
The issue will be swapped into fixed-rate U.S. dollars at a rate the company said is less than 9%; a spokesman declined to elaborate.
Lead underwriters for the issue are Scotia McLeod Inc. and RBC Dominion Securities Inc., both Toronto-based investment dealers.
Bramalea said it expects to complete the issue by the end of the month. 

Judging from the Americana in Haruki Murakami's "A Wild Sheep Chase" (Kodansha, 320 pages, $18.95), baby boomers on both sides of the Pacific have a lot in common.
Although set in Japan, the novel's texture is almost entirely Western, especially American.
Characters drink Salty Dogs, whistle "Johnny B. Goode" and watch Bugs Bunny reruns.
They read Mickey Spillane and talk about Groucho and Harpo.
They worry about their careers, drink too much and suffer through broken marriages and desultory affairs.
This is Japan? 

For an American reader, part of the charm of this engaging novel should come in recognizing that Japan isn't the buttoned-down society of contemporary American lore.
It's also refreshing to read a Japanese author who clearly doesn't belong to the self-aggrandizing "we-Japanese" school of writers who perpetuate the notion of the unique Japanese, unfathomable by outsiders.
If "A Wild Sheep Chase" carries an implicit message for international relations, it's that the Japanese are more like us than most of us think. 

That's not to say that the nutty plot of "A Wild Sheep Chase" is rooted in reality.
It's imaginative and often funny.
A disaffected, hard-drinking, nearly-30 hero sets off for snow country in search of an elusive sheep with a star on its back at the behest of a sinister, erudite mobster with a Stanford degree.
He has in tow his prescient girlfriend, whose sassy retorts mark her as anything but a docile butterfly.
Along the way, he meets a solicitous Christian chauffeur who offers the hero God's phone number; and the Sheep Man, a sweet, roughhewn figure who wears -- what else -- a sheepskin. 

The 40-year-old Mr. Murakami is a publishing sensation in Japan.
A more recent novel, "Norwegian Wood" (every Japanese under 40 seems to be fluent in Beatles lyrics), has sold more than four million copies since Kodansha published it in 1987.
But he is just one of several youthful writers -- Tokyo's brat pack -- who are dominating the best-seller charts in Japan.
Their books are written in idiomatic, contemporary language and usually carry hefty dashes of Americana. 

In Robert Whiting's "You Gotta Have Wa" (Macmillan, 339 pages, $17.95), the Beatles give way to baseball, in the Nipponese version we would be hard put to call a "game." As Mr. Whiting describes it, Nipponese baseball is a "mirror of Japan's fabled virtues of hard work and harmony." "Wa" is Japanese for "team spirit" and Japanese ballplayers have miles and miles of it.
A player's commitment to practice and team image is as important as his batting average.
Polls once named Tokyo Giants star Tatsunori Hara, a "humble, uncomplaining, obedient soul," as the male symbol of Japan. 

But other than the fact that besuboru is played with a ball and a bat, it's unrecognizable: Fans politely return foul balls to stadium ushers; the strike zone expands depending on the size of the hitter; ties are permitted -- even welcomed -- since they honorably sidestep the shame of defeat; players must abide by strict rules of conduct even in their personal lives -- players for the Tokyo Giants, for example, must always wear ties when on the road. 

"You Gotta Have Wa" is the often amusing chronicle of how American ballplayers, rationed to two per team, fare in Japan.
Despite the enormous sums of money they're paid to stand up at a Japanese plate, a good number decide it's not worth it and run for home. 

"Funny Business" (Soho, 228 pages, $17.95) by Gary Katzenstein is anything but.
It's the petulant complaint of an impudent American whom Sony hosted for a year while he was on a Luce Fellowship in Tokyo -- to the regret of both parties. 

In sometimes amusing, more often supercilious, even vicious passages, Mr. Katzenstein describes how Sony invades even the most mundane aspects of its workers' lives -- at the regimented office, where employees are assigned lunch partners -- and at "home" in the austere company dormitory run by a prying caretaker. 

Some of his observations about Japanese management style are on the mark.
It's probably true that many salarymen put in unproductive overtime just for the sake of solidarity, that the system is so hierarchical that only the assistant manager can talk to the manager and the manager to the general manager, and that Sony was chary of letting a young, short-term American employee take on any responsibility.
All of this must have been enormously frustrating to Mr. Katzenstein, who went to Sony with degrees in business and computer science and was raring to invent another Walkman. 

But Sony ultimately took a lesson from the American management books and fired Mr. Katzenstein, after he committed the social crime of making an appointment to see the venerable Akio Morita, founder of Sony.
It's a shame their meeting never took place.
Mr. Katzenstein certainly would have learned something, and it's even possible Mr. Morita would have too. 

Ms. Kirkpatrick, the Journal's deputy editorial features editor, worked in Tokyo for three years. 

More and more corners of the globe are becoming free of tobacco smoke. 

In Singapore, a new law requires smokers to put out their cigarettes before entering restaurants, department stores and sports centers or face a $250 fine.
Discos and private clubs are exempt from the ban, and smoking will be permitted in bars except during meal hours, an official said.
Singapore already bans smoking in all theaters, buses, public elevators, hospitals and fast-food restaurants. 

In Malaysia, Siti Zaharah Sulaiman, a deputy minister in the prime minister's office, launched a "No-Smoking Week" at the Mara Institute of Technology near Kuala Lumpur and urged other schools to ban on-campus smoking. 

South Korea has different concerns.
In Seoul, officials began visiting about 26,000 cigarette stalls to remove illegal posters and signboards advertising imported cigarettes.
South Korea has opened its market to foreign cigarettes but restricts advertising to designated places. 

A marketing study indicates that Hong Kong consumers are the most materialistic in the 14 major markets where the survey was carried out.
The study by the Backer Spielvogel Bates ad agency also found that the colony's consumers feel more pressured than those in any of the other surveyed markets, which include the U.S. and Japan.
The survey found that nearly half of Hong Kong consumers espouse what it identified as materialistic values, compared with about one-third in Japan and the U.S.
More than three in five said they are under a great deal of stress most of the time, compared with less than one in two U.S. consumers and one in four in Japan. 

The Thai cabinet endorsed Finance Minister Pramual Sabhavasu's proposal to build a $19 million conference center for a joint meeting of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund two years from now.
The meeting, which is expected to draw 20,000 to Bangkok, was going to be held at the Central Plaza Hotel, but the government balked at the hotel's conditions for undertaking necessary expansion.
A major concern about the current plan is whether the new center can be built in such a short time. 

Yasser Arafat has written to the chairman of the International Olympic Committee asking him to back a Palestinian bid to join the committee, the Palestine Liberation Organization news agency WAFA said.
An official of the Palestinian Olympic Committee said the committee first applied for membership in 1979 and renewed its application in August of this year.
The PLO in recent months has been trying to join international organizations but failed earlier this year to win membership in the World Health Organization and the World Tourism Organization. 

A Beijing food-shop assistant has become the first mainland Chinese to get AIDS through sex, the People's Daily said.
It said the man, whom it did not name, had been found to have the disease after hospital tests.
Once the disease was confirmed, all the man's associates and family were tested, but none have so far been found to have AIDS, the newspaper said.
The man had for a long time had "a chaotic sex life," including relations with foreign men, the newspaper said. 

The Polish government increased home electricity charges by 150% and doubled gas prices.
The official news agency PAP said the increases were intended to bring unrealistically low energy charges into line with production costs and compensate for a rise in coal prices.
In happier news, South Korea, in establishing diplomatic ties with Poland yesterday, announced $450 million in loans to the financially strapped Warsaw government. 

In a victory for environmentalists, Hungary's parliament terminated a multibillion-dollar River Danube dam being built by Austrian firms. 

The Nagymaros dam was designed to be twinned with another dam, now nearly complete, 100 miles upstream in Czechoslovakia.
In ending Hungary's part of the project, Parliament authorized Prime Minister Miklos Nemeth to modify a 1977 agreement with Czechoslovakia, which still wants the dam to be built. 

Mr. Nemeth said in parliament that Czechoslovakia and Hungary would suffer environmental damage if the twin dams were built as planned. 

Czechoslovakia said in May it could seek $2 billion from Hungary if the twindam contract were broken.
The Czech dam can't be operated solely at peak periods without the Nagymaros project. 

A painting by August Strindberg set a Scandinavian price record when it sold at auction in Stockholm for $2.44 million. "Lighthouse II" was painted in oils by the playwright in 1901 . . . After years of decline, weddings in France showed a 2.2% upturn last year, with 6,000 more couples exchanging rings in 1988 than in the previous year, the national statistics office said.
But the number of weddings last year -- 271,124 -- was still well below the 400,000 registered in 1972, the last year of increasing marriages. 

Fujitsu Ltd. 's top executive took the unusual step of publicly apologizing for his company's making bids of just one yen for several local government projects, while computer rival NEC Corp. made a written apology for indulging in the same practice. 

Meanwhile, business and government leaders rebuked the computer makers, and fretted about the broader statement the companies' actions make about Japanese cutthroat pricing. 

Fujitsu said it bid the equivalent of less than a U.S. penny on three separate municipal contracts during the past two years.
The company also disclosed that during that period it offered 10,000 yen, or about $70, for another contract. 

But Fujitsu, Japan's No. 1 computer maker, isn't alone.
NEC, one of its largest domestic competitors, said it bid one yen in two separate public auctions since 1987.
In both cases, NEC lost the contract to Fujitsu, which made the same bid and won a tie-breaking lottery.
All the contracts were for computer-system-design contracts and involved no hardware or software. 

The Ministry of International Trade and Industry summoned executives from the companies to "make sure they understood" the concern about such practices, according to a government spokesman. "These cases lead to the loss of the firms' social and international credibility," a ministry statement said. 

Japan's Fair Trade Commission has said it is considering investigating the bids for possible antitrust-law violations. 

"We would like to apologize for having caused huge trouble," Fujitsu President Takuma Yamamoto, read from a prepared statement as he stood before a packed news conference at his company's downtown headquarters.
The bids, he added, were "contrary to common sense." 

NEC released a statement saying, "We feel sorry for having caused trouble to society," a form of apology common in Japan for companies caught in embarrassing situations. 

Japanese companies have long had a reputation for sacrificing short-term profits to make a sale that may have long-term benefits.
But the growing controversy comes as many practices historically accepted as normal here -- such as politicians accepting substantial gifts from businessmen or having extramarital affairs -- are coming under close ethical scrutiny. 

The fire is also fueled by growing international interest in Japanese behavior.
So far there have been no public overseas complaints about the issue.
But in one of the auctions in question, International Business Machines Corp. made a bid substantially higher than the Fujitsu offer, according to the municipality.
The low-ball bids touch on issues central to the increasingly tense trade debate. 

Foreigners complain that they have limited access to government procurement in Japan, in part because Japanese companies unfairly undercut them.
The U.S. government in recent years has accused Japanese companies of excessively slashing prices on semiconductors and supercomputers -- products Fujitsu and NEC make. 

Asked whether the bidding flap would hurt U.S.-Japan relations, Mr. Yamamoto said, "this will be a minus factor." 

The "one-yen" controversy first came to a head last week when the city of Hiroshima announced that Fujitsu won a contract to design a computer system to map its waterworks.
The city had expected to pay about 11 million yen ($77,000), but Fujitsu essentially offered to do it for free. 

Then Wednesday, Fujitsu said it made a similar bid to win a library contract in Nagano prefecture two weeks earlier.
It also said that in July, it bid 10,000 yen to design a system for the Saitama prefectural library, and two years ago, it bid one yen to plan the telecommunications system for Wakayama prefecture. 

The company said it has offered to withdraw its bids in Hiroshima and Nagano.
The municipalities said they haven't decided whether to try to force the company to go through with the contracts. 

Fujitsu and NEC said they were still investigating, and that knowledge of more such bids could emerge.
Mr. Yamamoto insisted that headquarters hadn't approved the bids, and that he didn't know about most of the cases until Wednesday. 

Other major Japanese computer companies contacted yesterday said they have never made such bids. 

"One yen is not ethical," Michio Sasaki, an official at Keidanren, the Japan Federation of Economic Organizations, said. "Profit may be low, but at least costs should be covered." 

PAPERS: Backe Group Inc. agreed to acquire Atlantic Publications Inc., which has 30 community papers and annual sales of $7 million.
Terms weren't disclosed.
Backe is a closely held media firm run by former CBS Inc. President John Backe. 

TV: Price Communications Corp. completed the sale of four of its TV stations to NTG Inc. for $120 million in cash and notes, retaining a 10% equity stake in the new concern.
NTG was formed by Osborn Communications Corp. and Desai Capital. 

Michaels Stores Inc., which owns and operates a chain of specialty retail stores, said October sales rose 14.6% to $32.8 million from $28.6 million a year earlier. 

Sales in stores open more than one year rose 3% to $29.3 million from $28.4 million. 

Furukawa Co. of Japan said it will acquire two construction machinery plants and a sales unit in France formerly belonging to Dresser Industries Inc. of the U.S. 

The company said it made the purchase in order to locally produce hydraulically operated shovels. 

Last October, the company also bought a wheel-loader manufacturing plant in Heidelberg, West Germany, from Dresser. 

Furukawa said the purchase of the French and German plants together will total about 40 billion yen ($280 million). 

Structural Dynamics Research Corp., which makes computer-aided engineering software, said it introduced new technology in mechanical design automation that will improve mechanical engineering productivity. 

LSI Logic Corp. reported a surprise $35.7 million third-quarter net loss, including a special restructuring charge that reflects a continuing industry-wide slowdown in semiconductor demand. 

In September, the custom-chip maker said excess capacity and lagging billings would result in an estimated $2 million to $3 million net loss for the third quarter.
But company officials said yesterday that they decided to take a $43 million pretax charge for the period to cover a restructuring of world-wide manufacturing operations, citing extended weakness in the market as well as a decision to switch to more economical production techniques. 

"Over the summer months, there has been a slowing in the rate of new orders from the computer sector, our primary market," said Wilfred J. Corrigan, chairman and chief executive officer. "In addition, recent industry forecasts for 1990 indicate a slow environment, at least until midyear." As a result, the company said it decided to phase out its oldest capacity and "make appropriate reductions" in operating expenses. 

The $35.7 million net loss equals 86 cents a share.
Not counting the extraordinary charge, the company said it would have had a net loss of $3.1 million, or seven cents a share.
A year earlier, it had profit of $7.5 million, or 18 cents a share.
Revenue rose 42% to $133.7 million from $94 million. 

The charge partly reflects a switch from older five-inch to more-efficient six-inch silicon wafers with which to fabricate chips.
Related to that decision, the company said it was converting its Santa Clara, Calif., factory to a research and development facility.
A spokesman declined to speculate about possible reductions in force. 

"This is a company that has invested in capacity additions more aggressively than any other company in the industry and now the industry is growing more slowly and they are suddenly poorly positioned," said Michael Stark, chip analyst at Robertson, Stephens & Co. "I think the stock is dead money for a while." Yesterday's announcement was made after markets closed. 

U.S. chip makers are facing continued slack demand following a traditionally slow summer.
Part of the problem is that chip buyers are keeping inventories low because of jitters about the course of the U.S. economy. 

INGERSOLL-RAND Co. (Woodcliff Lake, N.J.) -- William G. Kuhns, former chairman and chief executive officer of General Public Utilities Corp., was elected a director of this maker of industrial and construction equipment, increasing board membership to 10. 
The dollar posted gains against all major currencies yesterday, buoyed by persistent Japanese demand for U.S. bond issues. 

While market sentiment remains cautiously bearish on the dollar based on sluggish U.S. economic indicators, dealers note that Japanese demand has helped underpin the dollar against the yen and has kept the U.S. currency from plunging below key levels against the mark. 

At the same time, dealers said the U.S. unit has been locked into a relatively narrow range in recent weeks, in part because the hefty Japanese demand for dollars has been offset by the mark's strength, resulting in a stalemate. 

Jay Goldinger, with Capital Insight Inc., reasons that while the mark has posted significant gains against the yen as well -- the mark climbed to 77.70 yen from 77.56 yen late Tuesday in New York -- the strength of the U.S. bond market compared to its foreign counterparts has helped lure investors to dollar-denominated bonds, rather than mark bonds. 

"Dollar-yen {trade} is the driving force in the market," said Tom Trettien, a vice president with Banque Paribas in New York, "but I'm not convinced it will continue.
Who knows what will happen down the road, in three to six months, if foreign investment starts to erode?" 

In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted at 1.8500 marks, up from 1.8415 marks late Tuesday, and at 143.80 yen, up from 142.85 yen late Tuesday.
Sterling was quoted at $1.5755, down from $1.5805 late Tuesday. 

In Tokyo Thursday, the U.S. currency opened for trading at 143.93 yen, up from Wednesday's Tokyo close of 143.08 yen. 

Douglas Madison, a corporate trader with Bank of America in Los Angeles, traced the dollar's recent solid performance against the yen to purchases of securities by Japanese insurance companies and trust banks and the sense that another wave of investment is waiting in the wings. 

He contends that the perception in Japan of a vitriolic U.S. response to Sony Corp. 's announcement of its purchase of Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. has been temporarily mollified.
He cites the recent deal between the Mitsubishi Estate Co. and the Rockefeller Group, as well as the possible white knight role of an undisclosed Japanese company in the Georgia-Pacific Corp. takeover bid for Great Northern Nekoosa Corp. as evidence. 

The forthcoming maturity in November of a 10-year Japanese government yen-denominated bond issue valued at about $16 billion has prompted speculation in the market that investors redeeming the bonds will diversify into dollar-denominated instruments, according to Mr. Madison. 

It remains unclear whether the bond issue will be rolled over. 

Meanwhile, traders in Tokyo say that the prospect of lower U.S. interest rates has spurred dollar buying by Japanese institutions. 

They point out that these institutions want to lock in returns on high-yield U.S. Treasury debt and suggest demand for the U.S. unit will continue unabated until rates in the U.S. recede. 

The market again showed little interest in further evidence of a slowing U.S. economy, and traders note that the market in recent weeks has taken its cues more from Wall Street than U.S. economic indicators. 

Dealers said the dollar merely drifted lower following the release Wednesday of the U.S. purchasing managers' report.
The managers' index, which measures the health of the manufacturing sector, stood at 47.6% in October, above September's 46%, and also above average forecasts for the index of 45.3%. 

Some dealers said the dollar was pressured slightly because a number of market participants had boosted their expectations in the past day and were looking for an index above 50, which indicates an expanding manufacturing economy.
But most said the index had no more than a minimal effect on trade. 

On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery settled at $374.20 an ounce, down 50 cents.
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.5 million ounces. 

In early trading in Hong Kong Thursday, gold was quoted at $374.19 an ounce. 

The Life Insurance Co. of Georgia has officially opened an office in Taipei. 

David Wu, the company's representative in Taiwan, said Atlanta-based Life of Georgia will sell conventional life-insurance products. 

Life of Georgia is part of the Nationale Nederlanden Group, based in the Netherlands. 

In this era of frantic competition for ad dollars, a lot of revenue-desperate magazines are getting pretty cozy with advertisers -- fawning over them in articles and offering pages of advertorial space.
So can a magazine survive by downright thumbing its nose at major advertisers? 

Garbage magazine, billed as "The Practical Journal for the Environment," is about to find out. 

Founded by Brooklyn, N.Y., publishing entrepreneur Patricia Poore, Garbage made its debut this fall with the promise to give consumers the straight scoop on the U.S. waste crisis.
The magazine combines how-to pieces on topics like backyard composting, explanatory essays on such things as what happens after you flush your toilet, and hard-hitting pieces on alleged environmental offenders. 

Garbage editors have dumped considerable energy into a whirling rampage through supermarket aisles in a bid to identify corporate America's good guys and bad boys.
In one feature, called "In the Dumpster," editors point out a product they deem to be a particularly bad offender.
From an advertising standpoint, the problem is these offenders are likely to be some of the same folks that are major magazine advertisers these days. 

With only two issues under its belt, Garbage has alienated some would-be advertisers and raised the ire of others.
Campbell Soup, for one, is furious its Souper Combo microwave product was chastised in the premiere "In the Dumpster" column.
The magazine's editors ran a giant diagram of the product with arrows pointing to the packaging's polystyrene foam, polyproplene and polyester film -- all plastic items they say are non-biodegradable. "It's precisely the kind of product that's created the municipal landfill monster," the editors wrote. 

"I think that this magazine is not only called Garbage, but it is practicing journalistic garbage," fumes a spokesman for Campbell Soup.
He says Campbell wasn't even contacted by the magazine for the opportunity to comment.
Modifications had been made to the Souper Combo product at the time the issue was printed, he says, making it less an offender than was portrayed.
He admits, though, it isn't one of Campbell Soup's better products in terms of recyclability. 

Campbell Soup, not surprisingly, doesn't have any plans to advertise in the magazine, according to its spokesman. 

Some media experts question whether a young magazine can risk turning off Madison Avenue's big spenders. "You really need the Campbell Soups of the world to be interested in your magazine if you're going to make a run of it," says Mike White, senior vice president and media director at DDB Needham, Chicago. "The economics of magazine publishing pretty much require that you have a pretty solid base" of big-time ad spenders, he adds. 

The first two issues featured ads from only a handful of big advertisers, including General Electric and Adolph Coors, but the majority were from companies like Waste Management Inc. and Bumkins International, firms that don't spend much money advertising and can't be relied on to support a magazine over the long haul. 

A Waste Management spokeswoman says its ad in the premiere issue was a one-time purchase, and it doesn't have any plans to advertise in future issues. "We don't spend much on print advertising," she says. 

But Ms. Poore, the magazine's editor and publisher, contends Garbage can survive, at least initially, on subscription revenues.
Individual copies of the magazine sell for $2.95 and yearly subscriptions cost $21. (It is, of course, printed on recycled paper.) 

According to Ms. Poore, Old-House Journal Corp., her publishing company, printed and sold all 126,000 copies of the premiere issue.
The first and second issues sold out on newsstands, she says, and the magazine has orders for 93,000 subscriptions. 

Asked whether potential advertisers will be scared away by the magazine's direct policy, Ms. Poore replies: "I don't know and I don't care.
I'm not saying advertising revenue isn't important," she says, "but I couldn't sleep at night" if the magazine bowed to a company because they once took out an ad. 

Ad Notes. . . . 

INTERPUBLIC ON TV: Interpublic Group said its television programming operations -- which it expanded earlier this year -- agreed to supply more than 4,000 hours of original programming across Europe in 1990.
It said the programs, largely game shows, will be provided by its E.C. Television unit along with Fremantle International, a producer and distributor of game shows of which it recently bought 49%.
It said that volume makes it the largest supplier of original TV programming in Europe.
Interpublic is providing the programming in return for advertising time, which it said will be valued at more than $75 million in 1990 and $150 million in 1991.
It plans to sell the ad time to its clients at a discount.
NEW ACCOUNT: CoreStates Financial Corp., Philadelphia, named Earle Palmer Brown & Spiro, Philadelphia, as agency of record for its $5 million account.
The business had been handled by VanSant Dugdale, Baltimore. 

AT&T FAX: American Telephone & Telegraph's General Business Systems division, New York, awarded the ad account for its Fax product line to Ogilvy & Mather, New York, a WPP Group agency.
Billings weren't disclosed for the small account, which had been serviced at Young & Rubicam, New York. 

FIRST CAMPAIGN: Enterprise Rent-A-Car Inc. breaks its first national ad campaign this week.
The St. Louis firm specializes in replacement-car rentals, those provided by insurance companies for cars damaged in accidents.
Developed by Avrett, Free & Ginsberg, New York, the $6 million campaign pitches Enterprise's consumer-driven service and its free pick-up and drop-off service. 

LANDOR ASSOCIATES: Young & Rubicam said it completed its acquisition of Landor Associates, a San Francisco identity-management firm. 

ACQUISITION: Ketchum Communications, Pittsburgh, acquired Braun & Co., a Los Angeles investor-relations and marketing-communications firm.
Terms weren't disclosed. 

Sea Containers Ltd. said it might increase the price of its $70-a-share buy-back plan if pressed by Temple Holdings Ltd., which made an earlier tender offer for Sea Containers. 

Sea Containers, a Hamilton, Bermuda-based shipping concern, said Tuesday that it would sell $1.1 billion of assets and use some of the proceeds to buy about 50% of its common shares for $70 apiece. 

The move is designed to ward off a hostile takeover attempt by two European shipping concerns, Stena Holding AG and Tiphook PLC.
In May, the two companies, through their jointly owned holding company, Temple, offered $50 a share, or $777 million, for Sea Containers.
In August, Temple sweetened the offer to $63 a share, or $963 million. 

Yesterday, Sea Containers' chief executive officer, James Sherwood, said in an interview that, under the asset-sale plan, Sea Containers would end up with a cash surplus of approximately $620 million.
About $490 million of that would be allocated to the buy-back, leaving about $130 million, he said. 

That $130 million, Mr. Sherwood said, "gives us some flexibility in case Temple raises its bid.
We are able to increase our price above the $70 level if necessary." He declined to say, however, how much Sea Containers might raise its price. 

Mr. Sherwood speculated that the leeway that Sea Containers has means that Temple would have to "substantially increase their bid if they're going to top us." 

Temple, however, harshly criticized Sea Containers' plan yesterday, characterizing it as a "highly conditional device designed to entrench management, confuse shareholders and prevent them from accepting our superior cash offer." 

A spokesman for Temple estimated that Sea Containers' plan -- if all the asset sales materialize -- would result in shareholders receiving only $36 to $45 a share in cash.
The lower figures, the spokesman said, would stem from preferred shares being converted to common stock and the possibility that Sea Containers' subsidiaries might be required to place their shares in the open market. 

Temple added that Sea Containers is still mired in legal problems in Bermuda, where the Supreme Court has temporarily barred Sea Containers from buying back its own stock in a case brought by Stena and Tiphook. {The court has indicated it will rule on the case by the end of the month.} 

Temple also said Sea Containers' plan raises "numerous legal, regulatory, financial and fairness issues," but didn't elaborate. 

Mr. Sherwood said reaction to Sea Containers' proposal has been "very positive." In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Sea Containers closed at $62.625, up 62.5 cents. 

The Transportation Department, responding to pressure from safety advocates, took further steps to impose on light trucks and vans the safety requirements used for automobiles. 

The department proposed requiring stronger roofs for light trucks and minivans, beginning with 1992 models.
It also issued a final rule requiring auto makers to equip light trucks and minivans with lap-shoulder belts for rear seats beginning in the 1992 model year.
Such belts already are required for the vehicles' front seats. 

"Today's action," Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner said, "represents another milestone in the ongoing program to promote vehicle occupant safety in light trucks and minivans through its extension of passenger car standards." 

In September, the department had said it will require trucks and minivans to be equipped with the same front-seat headrests that have long been required on passenger cars. 

The Big Three auto makers said the rule changes weren't surprising because Bush administration officials have long said they planned to impose car safety standards on light trucks and vans. 

Safety advocates, including some members of Congress, have been urging the department for years to extend car-safety requirements to light trucks and vans, which now account for almost one-third of all vehicle sales in the U.S.
They say that many vehicles classed as commercial light trucks actually carry more people than cargo and therefore should have the same safety features as cars. 

They didn't have much luck during the Reagan administration. "But now, there seems to be a fairly systematic effort to address the problem," said Chuck Hurley, vice president of communications for the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. "We're in a very different regulatory environment." Sen. John Danforth (R., Mo.) praised the department's actions, noting that rollover crashes account for almost half of all light-truck deaths. "We could prevent many of these fatalities with minimum roof-crush standards," he said. 

Sen. Danforth and others also want the department to require additional safety equipment in light trucks and minivans, including air bags or automatic seat belts in front seats and improved side-crash protection. 

The department's roof-crush proposal would apply to vehicles weighing 10,000 pounds or less.
The roofs would be required to withstand a force of 1.5 times the unloaded weight of the vehicle.
During the test, the roof couldn't be depressed more than five inches. 

In Detroit, a Chrysler Corp. official said the company currently has no rear-seat lap and shoulder belts in its light trucks, but plans to begin phasing them in by the end of the 1990 model year.
He said Chrysler fully expects to have them installed across its light-truck line by the Sept. 1, 1991, deadline.
Chrysler said its trucks and vans already meet the roof-crush resistance standard for cars. 

John Leinonen, executive engineer of Ford Motor Co. 's auto-safety office, said Ford trucks have met car standards for roof-crush resistance since 1982.
Ford began installing the rear-seat belts in trucks with its F-series Crew Cab pickups in the 1989 model year.
The new Explorer sport-utility vehicle, set for introduction next spring, will also have the rear-seat belts.
Mr. Leinonen said he expects Ford to meet the deadline easily. 

Consolidated Rail Corp. said it would spend more than $30 million on 1,000 enclosed railcars for transporting autos. 

The multilevel railcars, scheduled for delivery in 1990, will be made by Thrall Manufacturing Co., a Chicago Heights, Ill., division of closely held Duchossois Industries Inc., Elmhurst, Ill.
This year, the railroad holding company acquired 850 such railcars. 

Sir Peter Walters, 58-year-old chairman of British Petroleum Co. until next March, joins the board of this cement products company on Dec. 1.
Sir Peter will succeed Sir John Milne, 65, who retires as Blue Circle nonexecutive chairman on June 1. 

Bank of New England Corp. said it has held talks with potential merger partners outside New England, although it added that nothing is imminent and it hasn't received any formal offers. 

The discussions were disclosed as the bank holding company said that it has dropped its longstanding opposition to full interstate banking bills in Connecticut and in Massachusetts.
Later yesterday, a Massachusetts senate committee approved a bill to allow national interstate banking by banks in the state beginning in 1991. 

Currently, both Massachusetts and Connecticut, where most of Bank of New England's operations are, allow interstate banking only within New England. 

Richard Driscoll, vice chairman of Bank of New England, told the Dow Jones Professional Investor Report, "Certainly, there are those outside the region who think of us prospectively as a good partner.
We have, and I'm sure others have, considered what our options are, and we've had conversations with people who in the future might prove to be interesting partners." He added, "There's nothing very hot." 

Mr. Driscoll didn't elaborate about who the potential partners were or when the talks were held.
A bank spokeswoman also declined to comment on any merger-related matters, but said the company decided to drop its opposition to the interstate banking legislation because "prevailing sentiment is in favor of passage." 

Bank of New England has been hit hard by the region's real-estate slump, with its net income declining 42% to $121.6 million, or 61 cents a share, in the first nine months of 1989 from the year-earlier period.
The company recently said it would sell some operations and lay off 4% of its work force, altogether reducing employment to less than 16,000 from about 18,000.
It recently signed a preliminary agreement to negotiate exclusively with the Bank of Tokyo Ltd. for the sale of part of its leasing business to the Japanese bank. 

GOODY PRODUCTS Inc. cut its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 11.5 cents a share.
The reduced dividend is payable Jan. 2 to stock of record Dec. 15.
The Kearny, N.J.-based maker of hair accessories and other cosmetic products said it cut the dividend due to its third-quarter loss of $992,000, or 15 cents a share.
In the year-ago quarter, the company reported net income of $1.9 million, or 29 cents a share.
The company also adopted an anti-takeover plan. 


Michael Henderson, 51-year-old group chief executive of this U.K. metals and industrial materials maker, will become chairman in May, succeeding Ian Butler, 64, who is retiring.
Mr. Butler will remain on the board as a nonexecutive director. 

Rally's Inc. said it has redeemed its rights outstanding issued Monday in its shareholder rights plan.
The company said holders of stock of record Nov. 10 will receive 1/10th of one cent a share as the redemption payment. 

The fast-food company said its decision was based upon discussions with a shareholder group, Giant Group Ltd., "in an effort to resolve certain disputes with the company." 

Giant Group is led by three Rally's directors, Burt Sugarman, James M. Trotter III and William E. Trotter II, who last month indicated they hold a 42.5% stake in Rally's and plan to seek a majority of seats on Rally's nine-member board. 

Signs of a slowing economy are increasing pressure on the Federal Reserve to cut short-term interest rates, but it isn't clear whether the central bank will do so. 

A survey by the Fed's 12 district banks shows economic growth has been sluggish in recent weeks, while upward pressures on prices have moderated. "The economy is clearly slowing," says Robert Black, president of the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank. 

"If you look at the third quarter as posting roughly 2.5% growth, I do see some slowing in the fourth quarter," agrees Kansas City Fed President Roger Guffey. 

Nevertheless, both Mr. Guffey and Mr. Black say the slowdown so far is no cause for concern. "We're coming closer to achieving the stated objective of slowing the economy to a point where hopefully some downward trend in prices will occur," said Mr. Guffey. 

Bush administration officials are looking to the Fed to bring down rates, and financial markets seem to be expecting easier credit as well. "I think the market had been expecting the Fed to ease sooner and a little more than it has to date," said Robert Johnson, vice president of global markets for Bankers Trust Co. 

The Fed cut the key federal funds interest rate by about 0.25 percentage point to 8.75% after the Oct. 13 stock market plunge, but has shown no sign of movement since. 

The report from the Fed found that manufacturing, in particular, has been weak in recent weeks.
The Philadelphia Fed, for instance, reported that manufacturing activity "continues to decline" for the fourth month in a row.
And in the Chicago district, the report said, "a manufacturer of capital goods noted slower orders for some types, including defense equipment, petroleum equipment, food packaging machinery and material handling equipment." Retail sales also were reported slow in most districts, particularly "for discretionary, big-ticket items such as furniture, home appliances and consumer electronics." And construction also was described as slow in most areas. 

Despite the economic slowdown, there are few clear signs that growth is coming to a halt.
As a result, Fed officials may be divided over whether to ease credit.
Several Fed governors in Washington have been pushing for easier credit; but many of the regional Fed presidents have been resisting such a move. 

Mr. Black said he is "pleased" with the economy's recent performance, and doesn't see "a lot of excesses out there that would tilt us into recession." 

"There is always a chance of recession," added Mr. Guffey, "but if you ask me to put a percentage on it, I would think it's well below a 50% chance." 
Integra-A Hotel & Restaurant Co. said its planned rights offering to raise about $9 million was declared effective and the company will begin mailing materials to shareholders at the end of this week. 

Under the offer, shareholders will receive one right for each 105 common shares owned.
Each right entitles the shareholder to buy $100 face amount of 13.5% bonds due 1993 and warrants to buy 23.5 common shares at 30 cents a share.
The rights, which expire Nov. 21, can be exercised for $100 each. 

Integra, which owns and operates hotels, said that Hallwood Group Inc. has agreed to exercise any rights that aren't exercised by other shareholders.
Hallwood, a Cleveland merchant bank, owns about 11% of Integra. 

Copperweld Corp., a specialty steelmaker, said 445 workers at a plant in Shelby, Ohio, began a strike after the United Steelworkers Local 3057 rejected a new contract on Tuesday. 

The previous contract between Copperweld's Ohio Steel Tube division and the union expired at midnight Tuesday.
The union vote to reject the proposed pact was 230-215. 

Copperweld said it doesn't expect a protracted strike.
It said it has taken measures to continue shipments during the work stoppage. 

The Treasury said it plans to sell $30 billion in notes and bonds next week, but said the auctions will be postponed unless Congress acts quickly to lift the federal debt ceiling. 

Michael Basham, deputy assistant secretary for federal finance, said the Treasury may wait until late Monday or even early Tuesday to announce whether the autions are to be rescheduled.
Unless it can raise money in financial markets, Mr. Basham said, the federal government won't have the cash to pay off $13.8 billion in Treasury bills that mature on Thursday. 

Without congressional action, the Treasury can't sell any new securities -- even savings bonds.
But despite partisan bickering over the debt ceiling, which has become entangled in the fight over cutting capital-gains taxes, Congress is almost certain to act in time to avoid default. 

"Each day that Congress fails to act . . . will cause additional disruption in our borrowing schedule, possibly resulting in higher interest costs to the taxpayer," Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said in a speech prepared for delivery last night to a group of bankers. "To avoid these costs, and a possible default, immediate action is imperative." 

The securities to be sold next week will raise about $10 billion in cash and redeem $20 billion in maturing notes. 

The new securities, part of the federal government's regular quarterly refunding, will consist of: 

-- $10 billion of three-year notes, to be auctioned Tuesday and to mature Nov. 15, 1992. 

-- $10 billion of 10-year notes, to be auctioned Wednesday and to mature Nov. 15, 1999. 

-- $10 billion of 30-year bonds, to be auctioned Thursday and to mature Aug. 15, 2019.
The Treasury also said it plans to sell $10 billion in 36-day cash management bills on Thursday.
They will mature Dec. 21. 

None of the securities will be eligible for when-issued trading until Congress approves an increase in the debt ceiling, clearing the way for a formal offering, Mr. Basham said. 

The Treasury said it needs to raise $47.5 billion in the current quarter in order to end December with a $20 billion cash balance.
Auctions held in October and those scheduled for next week will raise a total of $25.6 billion. 

The remaining $21.9 billion could be raised through the sale of short-term Treasury bills, two-year notes in November and five-year notes in early December, the Treasury said. 

In the first three months of 1990, the Treasury estimates that it will have to raise between $45 billion and $50 billion, assuming that it decides to aim for a $10 billion cash balance at the end of March. 


Lancaster Colony Corp. said it acquired Reames Foods Inc. in a cash transaction.
Terms weren't disclosed. 

Reames, a maker and marketer of frozen noodles and pre-cooked pasta based in Clive, Iowa, has annual sales of about $11 million, Lancaster said. 

Investors took advantage of Tuesday's stock rally to book some profits yesterday, leaving stocks up fractionally.
Bond prices and the dollar both gained modestly. 

The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished less than a point higher to close at 2645.90 in moderate trading.
But advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange were tidily ahead of declining stocks, 847 to 644.
Long-term bond prices rose despite prospects of a huge new supply of Treasury debt this month.
Continuing demand for dollars from Japanese investors boosted the U.S. currency. 

Analysts were disappointed that the enthusiasm investors showed for stocks in the wake of Georgia-Pacific's $3.18 billion bid for Great Northern Nekoosa evaporated so quickly.
The industrial average jumped more than 41 points Tuesday as speculators rushed to buy shares of potential takeover targets.
But with the end of the year in sight, money managers are eager to take profits and cut their risks of losing what for many have been exceptionally good returns in 

Economic news had little effect on financial markets.
As expected, a national purchasing managers' report indicated the nation's manufacturing sector continues to contract modestly.
The Federal Reserve's Beige Book, a summary of economic conditions across the country, indicated that the overall economy remains in a pattern of sluggish growth. 

In major market activity: 

Stock prices rose fractionally in moderate trading.
Big Board volume totaled 154.2 million shares.
Bond prices were up.
The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond gained about a quarter of a point, or $2.50 for each $1,000 of face amount.
The yield fell to 7.88%. 

The dollar rose.
In late afternoon New York trading the currency was at 1.8500 marks and 143.80 yen compared with 1.8415 marks and 142.85 yen. 

Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co. posted a 62% rise in pretax profit to 5.276 billion yen ($36.9 million) in its fiscal first half ended Sept. 30 compared with 3.253 billion yen a year earlier. 

Net income more than tripled to 4.898 billion yen from 1.457 billion yen a year earlier. 

Eaton Corp. said it sold its Pacific Sierra Research Corp. unit to a company formed by employees of that unit.
Terms weren't disclosed. 

Pacific Sierra, based in Los Angeles, has about 200 employees and supplies professional services and advanced products to industry.
Eaton is an automotive parts, controls and aerospace electronics concern. 

Investor Harold Simmons and NL Industries Inc. offered to acquire Georgia Gulf Corp. for $50 a share, or about $1.1 billion, stepping up the pressure on the commodity chemicals concern. 

The offer follows an earlier proposal by NL and Mr. Simmons to help Georgia Gulf restructure or go private in a transaction that would pay shareholders $55 a share.
Georgia Gulf rebuffed that offer in September and said it would study other alternatives.
However, it hasn't yet made any proposals to shareholders. 

Late yesterday, Georgia Gulf said it reviewed the NL proposal as well as interests from "third parties" regarding business combinations.
Georgia Gulf said it hasn't eliminated any alternatives and that "discussions are being held with interested parties, and work is also continuing on other various transactions." It didn't elaborate. 

Analysts saw the latest offer as proof that Mr. Simmons, an aggressive and persistent investor, won't leave Georgia Gulf alone until some kind of transaction is completed. "He has clamped on their ankle like a pit bull," says Paul Leming, a vice president with Morgan Stanley & Co. "He appears to be in it for the long haul." Mr. Simmons and NL already own a 9.9% stake in Georgia Gulf. 

Mr. Simmons owns 88% of Valhi Inc., which in turn owns two-thirds of NL. NL is officially making the offer. 

Mr. Leming wasn't surprised by the lower price cited by NL, saying he believes that $55 a share is "the most you can pay for Georgia Gulf before it becomes a bad acquisition." 

Georgia Gulf stock rose $1.75 a share yesterday to close at $51.25 a share, while NL shares closed unchanged at $22.75 and Valhi rose 62.5 cents to $15, all in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. 

J. Landis Martin, NL president and chief executive officer, said NL and Mr. Simmons cut the price they were proposing for Georgia Gulf because they initially planned a transaction that included about $250 million in equity and a substantial amount of high-yield subordinated debt.
However, the junk-bond market has collapsed in recent weeks, lessening the likelihood that such a transaction would succeed. 

Now, he said, the group plans to put in "several hundred million" dollars in equity and finance the remainder with bank debt.
He also said that the group reduced its offer because it wasn't allowed to see Georgia Gulf's confidential financial information without agreeing that it wouldn't make an offer unless it had Georgia Gulf's consent. 

In a letter to Georgia Gulf President Jerry R. Satrum, Mr. Martin asked Georgia Gulf to answer its offer by Tuesday. 

It wasn't clear how NL and Mr. Simmons would respond if Georgia Gulf spurns them again.
Mr. Martin said they haven't yet decided what their next move would be, but he didn't rule out the possibility of a consent solicitation aimed at replacing Georgia Gulf's board.
In other transactions, Mr. Simmons has followed friendly offers with a hostile tender offer. 

Although Georgia Gulf hasn't been eager to negotiate with Mr. Simmons and NL, a specialty chemicals concern, the group apparently believes the company's management is interested in some kind of transaction.
The management group owns about 18% of the stock, most purchased at nominal prices, and would stand to gain millions of dollars if the company were sold. 

In the third quarter, Georgia Gulf earned $46.1 million, or $1.85 a share, down from $53 million, or $1.85 a share on fewer shares outstanding.
Sales fell to $251.2 million from $278.7 million. 




























































