.START 

Pierre Vinken, 61 years old, will join the board as a nonexecutive director Nov. 29.
Mr. Vinken is chairman of Elsevier N.V., the Dutch publishing group. 

Rudolph Agnew, 55 years old and former chairman of Consolidated Gold Fields PLC, was named a nonexecutive director of this British industrial conglomerate. 

J.P. Bolduc, vice chairman of W.R. Grace & Co., which holds a 83.4% interest in this energy-services company, was elected a director.
He succeeds Terrence D. Daniels, formerly a W.R. Grace vice chairman, who resigned.
W.R. Grace holds three of Grace Energy's seven board seats. 


Pacific First Financial Corp. said shareholders approved its acquisition by Royal Trustco Ltd. of Toronto for $27 a share, or $212 million. 

The thrift holding company said it expects to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end. 


McDermott International Inc. said its Babcock & Wilcox unit completed the sale of its Bailey Controls Operations to Finmeccanica S.p.
A. for $295 million. 

Finmeccanica is an Italian state-owned holding company with interests in the mechanical engineering industry. 

Bailey Controls, based in Wickliffe, Ohio, makes computerized industrial controls systems.
It employs 2,700 people and has annual revenue of about $370 million. 


The federal government suspended sales of U.S. savings bonds because Congress hasn't lifted the ceiling on government debt. 

Until Congress acts, the government hasn't any authority to issue new debt obligations of any kind, the Treasury said. 

The government's borrowing authority dropped at midnight Tuesday to $2.80 trillion from $2.87 trillion.
Legislation to lift the debt ceiling is ensnarled in the fight over cutting capital-gains taxes. 

The House has voted to raise the ceiling to $3.1 trillion, but the Senate isn't expected to act until next week at the earliest.
The Treasury said the U.S. will default on Nov. 9 if Congress doesn't act by then. 

South Korea registered a trade deficit of $101 million in October, reflecting the country's economic sluggishness, according to government figures released Wednesday. 

Preliminary tallies by the Trade and Industry Ministry showed another trade deficit in October, the fifth monthly setback this year, casting a cloud on South Korea's export-oriented economy. 

Exports in October stood at $5.29 billion, a mere 0.7% increase from a year earlier, while imports increased sharply to $5.39 billion, up 20% from last October. 

South Korea's economic boom, which began in 1986, stopped this year because of prolonged labor disputes, trade conflicts and sluggish exports.
Government officials said exports at the end of the year would remain under a government target of $68 billion. 

Despite the gloomy forecast, South Korea has recorded a trade surplus of $71 million so far this year. 

From January to October, the nation's accumulated exports increased 4% from the same period last year to $50.45 billion.
Imports were at $50.38 billion, up 19%. 

Texas Instruments Japan Ltd., a unit of Texas Instruments Inc., said it opened a plant in South Korea to manufacture control devices. 

The new plant, located in Chinchon about 60 miles from Seoul, will help meet increasing and diversifying demand for control products in South Korea, the company said. 

The plant will produce control devices used in motor vehicles and household appliances. 

John R. Stevens, 49 years old, was named senior executive vice president and chief operating officer, both new positions.
He will continue to report to Donald Pardus, president and chief executive officer.
Mr. Stevens was executive vice president of this electric-utility holding company.
Arthur A. Hatch, 59, was named executive vice president of the company.
He was previously president of the company's Eastern Edison Co. unit.
John D. Carney, 45, was named to succeed Mr. Hatch as president of Eastern Edison.
Previously he was vice president of Eastern Edison.
Robert P. Tassinari, 63, was named senior vice president of Eastern Utilities.
He was previously vice president. 

F.H. Faulding & Co., an Australian pharmaceuticals company, said its Moleculon Inc. affiliate acquired Kalipharma Inc. for $23 million. 

Kalipharma is a New Jersey-based pharmaceuticals concern that sells products under the Purepac label. 

Faulding said it owns 33% of Moleculon's voting stock and has an agreement to acquire an additional 19%.
That stake, together with its convertible preferred stock holdings, gives Faulding the right to increase its interest to 70% of Moleculon's voting stock. 

Oil production from Australia's Bass Strait fields will be raised by 11,000 barrels a day to about 321,000 barrels with the launch of the Whiting field, the first of five small fields scheduled to be brought into production before the end of 1990. 

Esso Australia Ltd., a unit of New York-based Exxon Corp., and Broken Hill Pty. operate the fields in a joint venture. 

Esso said the Whiting field started production Tuesday.
Output will be gradually increased until it reaches about 11,000 barrels a day.
The field has reserves of 21 million barrels.
Reserves for the five new fields total 50 million barrels. 

The Perch and Dolphin fields are expected to start producing early next year, and the Seahorse and Tarwhine fields later next year.
Esso said the fields were developed after the Australian government decided in 1987 to make the first 30 million barrels from new fields free of excise tax. 

R.P. Scherer Corp. said it completed the $10.2 million sale of its Southern Optical subsidiary to a group led by the unit's president, Thomas R. Sloan, and other managers. 

Following the acquisition of R.P. Scherer by a buy-out group led by Shearson Lehman Hutton earlier this year, the maker of gelatin capsules decided to divest itself of certain of its non-encapsulating businesses.
The sale of Southern Optical is a part of the program. 

Lord Chilver, 63-year-old chairman of English China Clays PLC, was named a nonexecutive director of this British chemical company. 

James L. Pate, 54-year-old executive vice president, was named a director of this oil concern, expanding the board to 14 members. 
